Expert: adam-robinson
Video URL: https://youtu.be/vrwKQIDAqKM
Date collected: 2026-06-13
============================================================

was dropping videos and they were getting like 80 views, you know, but I've been shocked by our breakout. It's just gone way better than I expected. So, we had one that got like, I don't know, 30,000 views. Maybe like 25% of those people made it through the whole thing. So, that's like 7 or 8,000, right? Think about a football stadium with 7,000 people in it. That's a crazy number of people sitting there listening to you teach for 15 minutes. And you're like, what are your goals of YouTube? I'm like, the only thing I want from this thing is to be able to like flow qualified leads into my SAS. this other agency has pitched me this service, right? And you were like, "That will not work. You need to actually make YouTube videos." 70% about tangential problems to your ICP. 30% shameless VSSLs. As a result of how wonderful this has been, I've recommended you to several people who are extremely satisfied with the service. Also, I don't know what your magic is. My interpretation is you're really good using AI and nailing my voice. You know, Alex, my guy for LinkedIn, like he lives in LinkedIn, right? like you're living in YouTube so you know what good YouTube is. It's obvious to me people will be going to YouTube to learn more about B2B in the future way more than they do now. What's up guys? I'm here with my client Adam Robinson. Uh so Adam really thanks a lot for just hopping onto this. I want to ask you first of all like can you introduce yourself like very briefly and just describe what you do and yeah we'll go from there. >> Sure. I am the founder and CEO of RB2B and retention.com. I also post a lot on LinkedIn, so you may know me from there. >> Yeah, I'm I'm assuming most people will have a watching idea for who you are, for sure. >> Um, awesome. And yeah, just like briefly, where were you before working with us when it comes to YouTube and everything when it comes to long form video content? >> Yeah. So, like this has been my my YouTube journey. So, I felt until about a year ago, I still had a lot of lowhanging fruit to improve on LinkedIn. Then once I felt like that was, you know, there wasn't like really easy improvements to make anymore, the next thing was like, okay, like I'm I'm spending this time creating this content on LinkedIn. Like, how do I get it on other channels? And it was like, okay, well, what's the next channel? I talked to Dave Ghart about it. He thought YouTube was the channel. And then I put a post out. I'm like, can I, you know, anybody want to help me out with YouTube? And then I interviewed a bunch of people. And I basically got a guy who was an agency and was editing my weekly show which is you know two hosts one guest interview and it you know it wasn't getting any traction and he had this idea that was good but what would be really great is if Pete interviewed me and I was the expert right but no further guidance than that. So like beat and I tried to like make the studio setup so it looked like we were in the same place and you know we tried to record one episode. It was extremely difficult and the idea of trying to make that like I feel like I've had enough failure and success in business to like sort of know when something has the potential of working and the idea of the amount of energy that it would have taken to make that into like a good show for YouTube was just insurmountable basically because you know I didn't really know what a good YouTube video was. Then I saw this post on LinkedIn about this other agency that was breaking down one of Finn Thormier's pieces and I was like, "Well, that's really smart. He does an interview show. Let me hit these guys up." Somehow this same week, you reached out to me through Sam and you're like, "What are your goals of YouTube?" I'm like, "The only thing I want from this thing is to be able to like flow qualified leads into my SAS." And I'm like, "This other agency has pitched me this service, right?" And you were like, "That will not work. You need to do something like instantly in HubSpot Marketing will do. You need to actually make YouTube videos. 70% about tangential problems to your ICP, 30% shameless VSSLs. And by the way, here's your first script. If you want to record it, I'll make it into a YouTube video for you. So, I was like, that sounds great. And then it was enough to get on a phone call. And, you know, much to my surprise, this working relationship as you were, you know, describing as it was going to be would be no weekly calls, completely async. There would be an idea doc we'd be running. You I would provide supporting materials. You'd get me the script. I'd record it on my own on Riverside. You guys would edit and post and then if I could drive traffic to it, great. That probably helped in the beginning. But, you know, I haven't been and we've had the biggest videos yet the last, you know, two of the last six I've been. So, you know, for me, this was like a dream come true. You know, it's it's it's like I wanted to expand the YouTube channel. You know, it's taking me no longer than an hour a week to do so, which I think is is is totally worth it. You know, I think the the largest direct source of leads for any B2B business is always going to be LinkedIn. But like you know that my my my my attitude is if I just keep doing this YouTube thing over time it is compounding they're evergreen assets and I'm kind of you know indoctrinating these people like before they get to LinkedIn in that stage of their life right so like that's how I'm looking at it and I have recommend you know as a result of how wonderful this has been. I've recommended you to several people who are extremely satisfied with the service also. So you know I think it's like I don't know what your magic is. My interpretation is like you're really good at like using AI and like nailing my voice and like knowing when we need more or less supporting assets or like whatever. And you also like like you know Alex my guy for LinkedIn like he lives in LinkedIn right like you're living in YouTube so you know what good YouTube is. So yeah man that's that's the story. if anybody's in a similar position as me. If you're already a content creator, it's going to be very easy to get this going, you know, and I can't really speak for anybody else, but you know, I know Taylor is not quite the level of content creator I am, and it's working great for him. So, so yeah. >> Awesome. Yeah, really appreciate to to hear all of this, and yeah, really really appreciate all the the kind words. Um, in terms of like the impact that you've seen, cuz I I think he had a first video went out like 5 months ago that we did together and since then we've been like uploading pretty consistently. in terms of the impact that you've seen so far in that like five months. Can you tell me a bit more about that? >> So, look, I know we're getting signups from the videos because I see UTMs. I'm working like most of our signups are on desktop and a lot of people on desktop use ad blockers. So, like I know that the tracking this is a separate problem I'm trying to solve. All I'm trying to say is I don't know that the the the like actual, you know, dollars through the funnel impact of it. What I can say is like I I I just get, you know, like content's a strange thing. Like I know people are reading the content because I like go to a place in the real world and they like tell me they read my stuff. Like that's like, you know, who these numbers are all kind of like weird until you actually go to the world of your ICP and they're like talking to you as if you're like friends or something, right? So like I I I know people. What am I trying to say? It's like it's like how do I know people are only signing up for RBDB from my LinkedIn? Like I don't but like I know that that reach is so big and the traffic's got to be coming from somewhere. So like it's I just think it's like it it has done what I had hoped and like amplified the sort of like uh the breadth of my founder brand. And I think over time it's creating a type of superfan that the LinkedIn stuff is not like just because the power of video is like it's just so much greater than the power of text in my opinion. So So yeah, I mean I'm going to keep doing it, keep trying to make it better. >> Awesome. Yeah, I mean I 100% agree that like especially recently we've been we've been starting to to work with a lot of people that are like LinkedIn heavy and now decided, okay, I want to like start YouTube more and like focus more on like long form video. And it's it's always very interesting to see the the kind of impact that like YouTube a YouTube along from YouTube video can have versus you know you know text post on LinkedIn and and and it's always like so much different. Um so yeah definitely agree on that. Yeah. Like lastly in terms of like based on you know the results that you've seen so far like where do you see this whole YouTube channel in the next 6 to 12 months from now? I would hope my whole goal was to have instantly's reach and subscriber count in 12 months. Now, I think I have their reach. If I just look at the videos they're putting out, our videos seem on average to do about like theirs. I think their breakouts might be bigger, but I think they also might be putting admin behind those. But, I've been shocked by a breakout, you know? It's just it's just gone way better than I expected. And it's almost like that to me is what's valuable rather than the subscriber count. So, like while it'd be great to have whatever 50 60 70,000 subscribers, like what's important to me is like, you know, I remember when we started this, it's it just seemed unfathomable to me that I could get like 2500 to 5,000 people watching 70% of whom watch 2/3 of the video or something like that or like 30% make it through almost the whole thing, right? Like that just seemed completely unattainable because I was dropping videos and they were getting like 80 views, you know? So, like if we can just like, you know, and YouTube's funny, like some hit, some don't, but like gradually increase the average number of views that like make it all the way to the end. It it's just amazing. I mean, you know, you try to think it's like, okay, so we had one that got like, I don't know, 30,000 views and like maybe like 25% of those people made it through the whole thing. So, that's like eight seven or 8,000, right? Like, think about a a football stadium with 7,000 people in it. You know what I mean? Like, it's so wild. And I and these numbers like relative to like the AI guys or Hermosi wherever they're tiny but still just like that's a crazy number of people sitting there listening to you teach for 15 minutes you know like and what is the point of all this? Like I don't know what the power of this is ultimately going to be for me someday. I have no idea. But like I've always had this belief that if you can just get people learning from you, you know, like you will it it's just anywhere we're in the attention economy. That's what it's that's what it's all about. Luckily, I have some pretty good ways to monetize right now, so you know, I'll keep it going. >> Yeah, for sure. Yeah, I think a lot of people don't realize like what's actually behind the numbers, especially on the YouTube side of things, cuz Yeah, sure. If you get like 100,000 impressions on LinkedIn, like, you know, probably they just like read the posts and and that's it. But like when it comes to a YouTube video, like they like sit down and like literally watch your face just speak for like 5, 10, 15 minutes. So, yeah, I think a lot of people don't don't realize that. Awesome, man. And like just last question. If anyone's on the fence, let's say about like working with us, they know that they probably want to do YouTube, but they're still on the fence, what would you tell them? >> I would say just try it. What like what is the downside? Even if you're going to charge them like whatever your monthly rate is for a month or so, like what is the downside of just like feeling what the rhythm would be like? Cuz that's the biggest thing for me. I mean, I might be in a different situation than some people listening to this, but like I'm [ __ ] busy, man. Like there there is not a path to YouTube without a rhythm like we have. You know what I would be doing if I hadn't have met you is we would just be producing this interview show on YouTube and it would be getting 300 views and I would be annoyed by that. But I would have no idea how to actually fix that and make it work for me the way that I want it to work for me. You know what I mean? >> 100%. Yeah, totally agree on that. Like, yeah, in terms of of being being a founder and doing YouTube, I' I've yet to see someone that does it consistently without like a full in-house YouTube team or or with like a vangor agency. Um cool. >> Like, I don't even know. I don't know how to I don't know how to hire the full show me the founder that know that wasn't a content creator before that knows what an in-house YouTube team looks like, right? Like, nobody does, you know, like >> that's like the whole movie is the Dan Martell that end up like hiring their own media. >> Exactly. But like they're like Dan Martell hasn't been a SAS guy for 20 years, you know, or at least 15. I think he sold his company in 2012. So like he has been a a content shop for 15 years, you know? It's like that's not it's like he's not he's not a SAS guy anymore like >> Exactly. Yeah. I mean, hiring an in-house YouTube team is if you're not like a media company or most like it's it's what I do because I build a YouTube agency and it's like I know how hard it is to like find all these like pieces. So, like I I know. Um, awesome. Any any final thoughts you would like to to tell the viewers? >> Yeah, I mean I just like really believe in the power of video. I haven't been using it as much on LinkedIn because like I felt like it was like really adversely impacting my reach, these talking heads. And like, you know, I also it just is is is obvious to me that like people will be going to YouTube to learn more about, you know, B2B um in the future way more than they do now. So, you know, if you if you're in B2B, the obvious first place is LinkedIn. But like once that thing is moving in the right direction, I would strongly encourage at least exploring what the additional lift would be to sort of have this thing going on for you on the side, right? Like that's all I got. >> Awesome. Awesome. Yeah, I appreciate you hopping on. Um, yeah, super excited for the next 6 to 12 months scaling this further and thanks for all that you do. I appreciate it and yeah, looking forward to