Expert: kieran-flanagan
Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bT652floQTo
Date collected: 2026-06-13
============================================================

Now, I will say the scary thing is Deep Seek's latest models have shown that synthetic data may be better than what we produce, which is a whole other rabbit hole to go down that you may not need humans at all. Hey, what's up everybody? My guest on this episode is Kieran Flanigan. Kieran is a marketing executive at HubSpot where he leads a marketing team of 300 marketers globally and before that he was CMO at Zapier. You probably know him as the guy who's been talking a whole lot about AI marketing on LinkedIn and that's exactly why I reached out to have him on the show. I think you have to be really skilled at both copy and prompting to get it to create something good. I hear this all the time. AI is not a great creative partner. It's because you can't prompt. I promise you that you cannot prompt. We talk about AI. Come on. The hottest topic in marketing right now. We talk about what role AI will have in B2B marketing. What the future marketing team might look like. How the role of CMO changes in the world of AI. And I got a bunch of your comments and questions and I tried to get him to open up and share some of his secret AI prompts that you can use too. I think marketers are going to have their own little secret treasure troves or prompts and some marketers are going to be much much better because they figured out some things in that prompt. And how long it lasts for, I don't know, the AI becomes much better. We had a great chat. We talked a lot about marketing, not just about AI. You're going to love this if you're a B2B marketer. Here's my conversation with Kieran Fland. 1 2 3 4 exit. All right. Super excited to have Kieran on the pod today. Uh, got a bazillion comments of questions that that I should ask you and then I read them all and I'm like, I like my questions better. I'm going to stick. Yeah. Yeah. Well, we're going to we have a bunch of things, but um before I instantly jump off and ask you a question, just um can you just give me give me some background on on you? Give give the listeners background on you real quick. You've been marketing leader, CMO at Zapier. Now you're back at HubSpot doing some cool stuff with AI. But how do you how do you explain who you are and what you do? Yeah, I will condense my career into wanted to be a builder. So I was a developer, a software developer. It's what I went to university for. And uh pre-Isol cuz I'm going to circle back to this. Um I sucked. I was like terrible. I used to like sit there recode in books could not code or or could code but was always average and I was like I'm going to have a very average career. Um I find my way in marketing because at that time marketing was it was like the kind of 2008 and so the internet started to change I think marketing to be a much more technical discipline and so I got into search got into performance marketing then I did the kind of like thing you do in Dublin when you get into SAS help brands to grow internationally because you know that's what you get you set up the base in AMIA you grow internationally I did that for Salesforce Marquetto that was my first stint in HubSpot like my first two years that was uh good fun. Then I went and did a an eclectic mix of things for HubSpot. I would say the fortunate thing that I have managed to do is I've never really had a straightforward marketing job per se. I've always had like more of a a range of like missions. And so first one was helping to grow the business internationally. Second one was helping us to shift towards a PLG um business which I think you were in HubSpot at that time maybe around the time we were starting to move to that PLG. The third one was really we had to kind of rebuild the way all of our go to market customer demand engine worked. The fourth which was a lot of fun was building out our media network which was acquiring the hustle building this kind of media network. And then the fifth was like a a collection of things but I didn't really have like a core mission. I work on two-year increments and so I have to have a core mission that lasts two years. And so I went to Zapier did the GM uh role for self-s serve. That's a an incredible company. the hours were a bit of a stretch. I'm based in Dublin. A lot of it was based in San Fran. Uh that's like 5:00 p.m. their day starts my time. And so I wanted to try to I said like that's not going to work. We decided to decided to look for something else. And then Kip, who you know really well was like, "Hey, we need to like do a bunch of AI transformation within the company." And that really is I'm a shiny objects person. for better or worse actually a lot of times for worse if I'm being honest and so AI was like I was like obsessed with AI I was like the only thing I really care about is being the most knowledgeable person in operator who can do AI and so I was like oh I got real practical knowledge so there's three core things in in uh HubSpot I still do a lot of the marketing um a bunch of the marketing teams report to me I have all of the cross functional teams that are doing a bunch of the internal AI transformation and then do a lot of things for our SMB be go to market. So like a real an eclectic mix of things I think. Yeah, I love that. And it just I mean obviously as you as you grow and mature, it's about learning learning where to operate and and and what gives you joy. You said you work in two-year increments. Is that like an actual like contractually obligated thing or is it like a Kieran mental framework for like just kind of time boxing your life a little bit? It's a Kieran framework, but like people who work with me know that so I work and so I will always look to see what the next incremental mission is coming into the second year. Uh usually like the last six months of the second year. So even here in HubSpot I have three core missions and I and I can actually time box them into really like two years. Like I want to the reason two years is because anything that is I think impactful takes some time but I think to actually have something motivates you you should be able to do it within a you know a foreseeable amount of time. It was 5 years is too long away for me to like stay motivated that long to see the impact of it. So at two years I think has always been a great force and function to say am I doing something meaningful and can I actually see the end inside because that's what motivates me is getting to the end and seeing it to you know making sure that it actually has some sort of impact. I I like that. I like that just like even for people listening right like so obviously we've all gone through growth and change in our career and you know sometimes I say things and someone's like well that's easy for you. You've proven yourself. you kind of have a pick of your job or whatever, but I even like that even even if you're stuck in a shitty job, right? It's like, okay, maybe I'm early in my career and I can't leave the company, can I give myself a two-year mission of like, is there something that I can work on where I can gain some skills inside of this company and then I can more have a pick of my next thing kind of after that? Right. Yeah. Because again, I think you have to commit to doing something long enough that you can earn your stripes, right? Like you have your pick of jobs because you've earned your stripes. Uh, I think that I think there's a lot of people aren't willing to do the grind. And I think, you know, a good example of that is me and Kip getting growing this YouTube channel will nearly be the death of me. Like so we have marketing against the grain and we decided to pivot from RSS to YouTube. It's the hardest thing to do. Like YouTube is one of the hardest channel and we are grinding because we have like a bunch of other things we do. But that grind is what I think separates people who will be successful versus will not. And two years is enough time that you actually really have to grind through some stuff, but not so much time that you cannot stay motivated to achieve that outcome. So even if I was early in my career, I remember I used to be really obsessed by titles. I think most people are the earlier you are in your career, the more obsessed you are by titles. And I think that I think I think that's fine because titles do come with better salary, things like that. And so I used to wake up every day and say I had a whiteboard that just said I want to be a a marketing director for a US-based company. Now for most people based in the US that's not a ambitious goal. When you were based in Ireland uh that is a pretty ambitious goal because there's not a lot lot of US companies were coming to Ireland at that point and it's harder to like climb the career ladder in American companies if you're not based in America. So I used to have that as my kind of two-year force and function. I want to be director and then I want to be VP and now it's really just about solving problems. What is it what is it about being in being in Ireland? Is it just that there were not a lot of I mean are there is that is that true now? Like I feel like last time I was over there was like every corner is a SAS company but there's a lot more opportunity now. I think still a lot of the US companies come here and what the marketers end up doing is replicating the global strategy on an international basis but I think uh I think that even in itself has become a more innovative like the it has definitely evolved since I first started doing it. I think there's a ton more opportunity. I think remote work has opened up a ton more opportunity for folks and Ireland actually has a pretty good not as good as it should be but they have a startup scene like a growing startup scene as well. So there there is plenty more opportunities for people here. My my my I you know just being a dumb American my my I my Irish knowledge uh expands mainly um Royal Rory Mroy and Shane Lowry and then uh yeah and golf. Yeah, I watched the Roy Mave. Roy, talk about persistence, right? Like what a what a great example of someone who was it 14 years uh bottled it in so many occasions, basically nearly bottled it again and still came out and won that uh last shot. So I think that's a great example of perseverance. I mean, it's just being it's being addicted to the being being obsessed with the with the craft, right? Okay. So, something I want to ask you about. you mentioned. So you at least in my mind you're this strange blend of like marketer, hacker, grower, entrepreneur, but you also have a team. How how do you how do you balance both of those things? Because I I feel like often times it's you're either one or the other and it's like, oh, if you want to do all this stuff, then you're just going to be like the high paid IC. But you you've managed to do it both. Do you how do you how do you operate? How do you do both of those things? It's a good question and uh I will say these so I will say it is hard because and and by the way by the way I'm I'm not asking from like a time standpoint. I just mean like I feel like oftentimes the the maker it's like the Paul Graham maker manager thing like those are just very different personas and so I'm wondering how you how you can be both. Okay, I actually I'm going to bring something up because it might be interesting to you. Um like I think what you're asking is because I was asking AI about this. I think what you're asking is basically um how do you be a is it like a great people manager but also a great executor because usually the people who are great people managers are obsessed with people and the people who execute well are obsessed by problems and how do I actually blend the two together. Yes. And I I'll give you my my selfish story of this is like I was a great marketer from like basically I was like the you know this is not ego it's just kind of like giving a frame of this like I was like the best marketer on the team and then because of that I grew into like well guess I guess you're the VP of marketing because you're you're the guy and then when I got to like there was it wasn't even that big compared to the size you you you guys have operated at but there was like a marketing team of 30 and I'm like this is not what I signed up for like my whole day his performance reviews and, you know, one-on- ones and shitty conversations. I'm like, I want to like write some headlines and [ __ ] Yeah. I I So, I I think this is the uh I think this is the battle of anyone who is great gets a team and then they get sucked into people admin. I do wonder if it's going to change that uh I have seen a lot more founders and people want to hire like super IC's as leaders and I think AI is going to make teams smaller. Dude, this is this is what has re reit my candle for marketing is like I I think in the future like what I wanted to be is more possible. It's like oh you can be CMO like because I'm not saying I don't want to work with people but I think like a small team CMO you get to do some [ __ ] and you have a team of like you know five to 10 people like that would be money. Yeah. I think I and I think that's where we're going, but like I think specifically there's some and the reason I'm bringing this up because I do think there's a a real like incredible learning here and I will actually answer the question. I'm just bringing up this quote. So I had AI basically um we did it live on the show but it because it has memory and because I spend my entire life in chatbt it knows a lot about you right and I asked it I asked it these questions which is like hey if someone was on boarding to work with me what are some of the things you would tell them about how I work and it was like you know well you're incredible at this you're incredible at that and then I basically said uh you know tell me actually the hard truths like tell me the things that people would not enjoy and it had this thing I'm going to read it out because everyone probably was the most articulate way of explaining one of my constant battles that no one else has really articulated to me in this way. It said uh he could Kieran can be mentally 10 steps ahead and emotionally 10 steps removed. Kieran thinks in systems and long-term leverage, not entrepreneural, not entrepreneurial minutia. That means he may not always sense when someone's overwhelmed, unclear, or demotivated unless you tell him. He's not cold, just focused, but emotional cues and people management don't always come naturally at first. I was like, "Wow." because like okay like you have oh dude this is an amazing use case because years ago um there was that like uh I don't know the startup growth handbook by that guy Elad Gil and in it he had this like uh Claire Hughes Johnson was I don't know if she still is I don't really pay attention was the COO of Stripe and it was like this she published this like how to work with me doc and I was like oh this is genius like I just need to write like all these things up front so people know that I'm not an [ __ ] I do well now but now you have all of this you you know have this third party to tell you hey help me write like you know how I am help to how to work with me it's a great use case yeah so the three things I do is I do this how to work with me and I think AI is able to be really honest and then you have to be honest with yourself I think a lot of people want to give the best version of themselves I don't I actually give the real version of myself and I think my flaws are always going to be that I am more problem obsessed than people obsessed does not mean I don't care about the people it just means My energy is from trying to solve problems and if I'm trying to solve that problem by myself and if I can do it by myself which with AI I can do it a lot more often by myself uh I am as energized to do that as I am with people. Other people who are much more gravitate towards people are much more energized to solve that person that thing with a person and I it doesn't matter to me as long as I'm solving a hard problem. I think the other thing I do is I have incredible uh people who do work with me who understand what are my skills and strengths and so they will do what this thing said you have to do which is like they're much more proactive at telling me this is a problem with the team that person is not happy with you because you have not done a great job. So they're able to like be more proactive and like where am I falling down because I'm so in the weeds. And then the last framework I use is push and pull. So if I look across my remitt and HubSpot, like I have like 300 plus direct reports and then two really large cross functional um teams. So I cannot be uh in the weeds on everything. And so I use this push and pull where I tell people this quarter, these are the things I'm going to be uh in the weeds on, which means I'm going to push really hard. And it does not mean I don't think you're good at your job. It just means I'm obsessed with this problem and I'm going to act like a team member. Everything else I expect you to pull me in when you need me. But I but for the most part, I'm not going to be like knocking at your knocking at your door on Slack or emailing you constantly like what's happening here because I assume it's going well unless you pull me in. That's kind of my model. Do I think I'm perfect in the way it works? No. Like I've definitely met I've definitely constantly have like gaps in what's happening especially across the people's side, but it's the only way to work in a way that actually will keep me super motivated to like solve these hard problems. I I I think that's great. I think it's I mean, it's it comes with the wisdom of having gone through change and growing a big org and and knowing yourself, but I think one of my biggest weaknesses as a manager is I'm a strongly opinionated marketer and so like with you, right, you have a you have 300 people on a team. How do you I'm sure you see things and you're like, I would have written that headline differently. Like how do you not how do you how do you not share that feedback? I find myself like I try to be this guy. I try to be the pushand pull guy and then like I'll be going through my emails and I'll see one of our emails and like I send it to the team and I'm like I don't like this subject line. Here's how I would have wrote this intro and I'm like um is that the right like there are multiple it doesn't always have to be Dave's way. I think I think it should be this is actually a good topic. I think that we have been taught in tech that the way you manage people is to like ask probing questions and like direct them towards your way of thinking but don't give them their direct feedback or don't just do it for them because that's not how they learn. I think actually the people do want to work for like crafts people who can actually do the craft and have a really high standard. So to me I will just do say I want to do it this way and I think over time you can I think there's forums that we have that we can debate those things out but I think strong point of view marketers are what is needed today and I think that there should be craft people who manage teams who say that doesn't hit my bar I want to do it this way and I and it will come out in the results but the whole I've never been a great fan on the kind of management where you're like probing and there's all these question like you get a memo, right? And every memo is a question, but the question is like really what you think, but you won't say it. But you're trying to like unnaturally guide the person towards what you want them to do. Just tell them what you want them to do. Like they'll agree or disagree. God, this is Is this therapy for me or am I having you on the podcast? Because what am I do this all the time? I'm like cuz I want to involve people. I want to be a good leader. I want to be a good manager. And I'm like, let's all let's do let's do a collaborative brainstorm session about, you know, X. And then like everyone submits their ideas and then like I sleep on it and I go for a walk and I'm like no no no I know exactly what I want to do. And then everyone's mad because they're like what the [ __ ] man we just you took two hours out of our day to when you could have just told us what to do. And I think I'm getting more comfortable with being like oh yeah and this is why the whole thing of like vibe marketing and AI and where AI is going and that role of marketing is changing like and I I've heard you guys talk about this and I I love it. Like I I love the the I love the mark being a like the thought of like great marketing is being a taste maker in marketing. And there's, you know, I'm not the spreadsheet guy, but I think I have strong opinions. I think I I think I have creative ways to solve problems. And I'm like, I kind of just want to say what the answer is and and have people execute on it sometimes versus like I think teams want that. I think more teams want that. In my experience, like there's definitely teams who are like, "Hey, I don't want to be told the answer. I want to be able to try to do this myself." But there's a lot of other teams that actually appreciate core points of view and direction. I think some of the best managers in the I think some of the best man or leaders are the best leaders because they understand the crafts and you want to be on their team because you're going to learn and sometimes that means that you are doing the executing and they're doing all of the thinking. But sometimes it means that you're going to do the thinking because you just have better um you you have better thoughts, you have better points of view. And being a great leader is understanding where that person idea is better than yours. But I certainly I certainly am more aligned with your way of of like just if you have an answer, just give it to them versus spending three to four hours probing, you know, are you sure this is the right headline? Are you sure it shouldn't be this thing? No, we're going to do our one. My my first job was a my first like real marketing job was a PR internship and my my boss would always this was like when you're using Outlook for emails and we would I would send an email to a client and my boss would send it back to me all like marked up with red and he would he literally would rewrite all my emails and the subject line and I was like at the time I hated it but now it's like I guess it's like parenting in somewhere where like oh man that guy helped me be a good communicator by like instead of being like what do you think you should have said here he'd be like here's how he would rewrite the whole email and like you know you you remember that feeling of getting like a doc back and it's all marked up in red and you're like this I didn't keep a single word that I wrote but that that was how I learned to to write effectively. I remember uh I want to transition a little bit. I'm going to go all over the place. Yeah. Yeah. Go ahead. No, go ahead. Go ahead. Yeah. No, I want So first of all, that that that exact process is basically sounds like copy work, right? copy work is when you're just writing at you know this because you're incredibly good at copy where you're writing at the same uh copy time and time again to learn it. The other my experience very similar to that is one of the um I give this famous presentation in in HubSpot and uh it was called the death march because it just sucked so bad. I know I knew it sucked. Someone said [ __ ] this sucks during the presentation and uh someone like afterwards basically just like give me the playbyplay of here's how it sucked. This sucked. That sucked. And I cannot even like tell you how much I learned from that versus someone who wouldn't tell me straight how bad that was and why it was bad. Like you just that's how you learn. I think you just learn much more quicker. Do you ever listen to your own podcasts? Uh I listen to the parts where we have made like where I think there's like funny things that we did. So we did that Kip and I did the uh AI giving us the real truths about us because we're so alike. I just know it says some things about us I just thought were hilarious and I'm like how the freak do you know this? Like it's weird that you know this, but uh not really. Now, my my wife sent me this uh this Instagram video of like a guy going for a walk with like this like robot. It's like she's like this is you and Chad GBT. And then I saw another one that was like it was a robot just wandering the beach and it was like Chad GBT doing a mental health walk after talking to me all day. I I do want like it is incredible how much of our lives we're spilling out into into uh ChachiBD. I was talking to someone earlier and they're like, "Well, is there any real subscription cost between these?" And I'm like, "Well, ChachiD is like literally my friend." Okay, so this is one of my questions for later is like one of the things that you know you guys drive me nuts because you make me feel like I got to be there there's a I'm feel like man am I only using I'm only using chat GBT cuz I I know there's so many use cases but I'm like the lock in is so real because it's been two years and I've spent so much time writing in there and like the memory is is becoming such a part of the lock in that it's like man that is that's the gold of that god I hope they I hope they protect that that that data that would be that would be worse than leaking my Google search history or the group chat the group texts getting getting leaked but I think that I think what you're saying is incredibly important the memory has been an an unbelievable lock in for these companies like they all have it but now anyone who chatbtd has a real reason for you to keep using that I think there's reasons to use different models but chatb is cla was my go-to I was like talking about cloud non-stop I still love that product but claude is not trying to I think where these companions release Opus 4 was much more around powering other companies autonomous agents. I think Chat GBT wants to be your assistant. Google want to be your assistant. So memory is a real lock in. And so there's different reasons to use different models. I would say for most people right now, chatb can do most of the things you want to do. Um there are some business use cases that claude I think is really good for but uh like what like the like project I see I I I know you guys use it a lot in internally for like sharing work and and context what are the business use cases the the project the projects are sharable like so when you have teams I think AI in general suffers from multiplayer uh a multiplayer mode and so I think it's much more single player which for an introvert like me is pretty bad because it gives me another reason not to talk to humans But Claude has like more sharable features. Uh, OpenA has this now, but Claude has like really great integrations. And so I was doing a little video for my newsletter subscribers um to show how you could basically get all of your a whole marketing summary for the year like basically what did we achieve this year, key key milestones, all of those different types of things. And it's getting all of that from our Asana, G Drive, email, everywhere else. And it's able to do a whole summary and presentation on what what we've done. But Claude has access to about 8,000 tools now through Zapier's MCP. So you can do a ton of like business stuff just through the interface. Gemini is a really good model. I know it's really good. I just don't have time. I just not had not I I use it now and again, but I just I'm so intertwined with chat right now. I just have not used it as much as I was using it. No, that makes me feel better to hear you say that. Um, so I saw you you often write about like when it comes to chatbt, you you often like at least in the post you write you you you always say like 03 is the blank. Like I just checked my default is 40, but I always see you talking about 03 is what is the difference? Why why would I switch them? So 03 is a reasoning model. It is for more complex tasks. I do think I overuse it. So when you have like complex tasks that result that require a multitude of different steps, 03 is a better model to use. Uh the O model is just for your everyday tasks. Here's what's happening actually. What's kind of really interesting it's at some point very soon you know you have to drop down and you have to pick like the 03 model, the O model, the deep research model, the image, whatever it may be. They are start and they are starting to combine all these. So even in your own model now I think if you do a kind of prompt that is more suited to deep research it will do the deep research without you having to trigger the deep research and GPT5 which is coming out I thought May so it's obviously been delayed. I have not checked back in to see if there was an update. They're going to collapse it all into a single assistant because they want to get to the personal assistant. So you don't even have to think about what model do I use. They know that that is a friction point for users. It's just because they can't figure out the intent. So they don't know if you need reason and they don't know if you need deep research. You should just pick it yourself. They're going to solve that with the next model. I think that is going to be the next leap in terms of uh adoption for AI because it's going to make it's going to make it just so easy to use these things for the average user. Yeah, that's nice. There's a lot of like, you know, there's just so much it is moving so fast. And even even just like the memory as an example, I remember as recently as like a year ago, I shared with the people on our team like, "Hey, here are copy my custom instructions because my I've trained my chat GBT to be so good around exit 5 and knowing our business and our persona and all that." And now I don't even have to do that anymore because it's like if you just start using it, all the memory gets saved. And so the the the innovation is is great. And ultimately like that's what I want. I I don't like I'm a very simple per like I like I like when the I don't like decision fatigue. I don't like knowing there's 20 tools. I want to use the one and I want to go go deep in that. I've always been that way from like even studying copywriting. It was like I'm going to pick I picked Dan Kennedy and David Oglevie and I just studied all that stuff versus trying to like you know do the broad worry about everything else. So simple is better. Okay, let's let's talk about what does it what does this all mean? What does this all mean for marketing? I have some specific questions that I want to get into later, but just like the existential everyone listening to this now, you know, there's thousands of listeners to this podcast that work in marketing and a lot we all believe in in what's happening with AI, but there's also this this I don't know if it's fear or skepticism. I don't really have a question, but it's like I'm gonna give you a prompt and you can you can kind of riff on this and then I'm like, you know, it's an interesting question to like, you know, talk to you about and talk to Kip about because, you know, you guys are pushing the boundaries and you're you're at the ed you're at the front lines of AI, but at the same time, you have a, you know, you have 300 people on the marketing team and are are they like hearing the things you're saying about like the marketing team is dead and are they like running around HubSpot like, "Oh my god, what the hell is going to happen to my job?" Like, how do how do you balance all those things and and where do you think this is going? I'm gonna do so I'm going to do a I think I'm gonna do this as I'm g the most positive optimistic view for marketers because I think there's a lot of uh negative ways you can look at this. So I'm going to give the more optimistic view I think for marketers and I'm also going to try to stick to the things that I like strongly believe that there's some some sort of evidence and I think some of them like are pretty self evident in terms of what's going on like we we are we are we are going to get rid of the era offormational content right because what we're moving from is answers to action so like we grew our careers uh in a in the era of hey we can create a bunch of content get it to rank on Google I think the average On average, 80% of the B2B buyer journey starts on Google. Um, Gartner predict that in 2027, it's going to be 95% in an LLM assistant. The LLM assistant is using theformational content to give you action. So, instead of me saying, what are the how do I create Facebook ads that convert, I literally just go to the LLM assistant and say, give me p Facebook ads that convert. Right? So, I've moved from answer to action. That's it used to be like if you if you sold a sales tool, you know, like early days of uh HubSpot, it'd be like 10 best sales tools and then like we write the article and we're like number three on the list. Exactly. And then we can just convert it into customers and I think that goes that that that is going away. Right. I think so with that that to me is the visit layer. So visit layer clicks less clicks. Um, I think if you go up one, I think that you have to be we have to be much better at how we garner awareness and attention. Like that's one of your superpowers is how do you actually create things that stand out from the noise. I do think what's happening is the channels where you do that gravitate towards a creator p person versus a brand which I think is another hard thing for marketers who work for brands. And like Substack, Substack's one of the sites that is actually growing in traffic, right? Uh podcasting, YouTube, social, all of these things are much more better for the individual. So that top layer is much harder for a brand because visits are being disrupted. Awareness is being disrupted. The channels that growing are much more suited to a creator. But all of the value from AI is acrewing in the what happens when you capture the contact. And I think that is a ton of that is there's a lot lot a lot of ways to be a lot of reasons to be optimistic, right? Because some of the things that I think are really interesting is we we in B2B we were sold that segmentation is the way we build our marketing plans. Like hey, you all look you're all kind of the same. So here you go. This is like the thing that you should all enjoy. And I think a I think AI allows you to go right into marketing at the company level, right? So, we can actually, you know, some of the crazy things you could do is dynamic uh website optimization, which is when you change the homepage based upon whatever segment you're in, you get this copy, you get this look and feel, which never really worked that well. In the future, you could build that person, that person could have a separate micro site like just for their company because code is is super cheap. So you can actually build these tailored websites for individual companies. Instead of having a oneto- many newsletter, you can do this now. You can use AI plus these kind of tools to build newsletters for one to one. Like you could be in our database and I could build a newsletter that you want to describe to based on stuff that I know about you. And so I think we move towards micro audiences and much more tailored campaigns to those audiences which should allow us to extract more from less. Um, now I'll I'll I'll give some other optimistic things about the top part. OpenAI is going to release ads in their premium tier, right? That's why they hired the ex CEO of Instacart, which is great. Now, we at last get another platform that we can do stuff in, right? And for them to make that work, I do think they'll want to actually have traffic go into publishers because I don't I think they're smart enough to realize, well, if we break the relationship between why you create content um and getting traffic back for that content, then over time we have to rely on training models via synthetic data. So what I mean by synthetic data is no one's creating content anymore. So the AIs have nothing else to learn from. So the AI itself has to create content for the AI to learn from. Now I will say the scary thing is deepseek's latest models have shown that synthetic data may be better than what we produce which is a whole other rabbit hole to go down that you may not need humans at all but I do think what I have seen this year if they they really have started to change the uh way that they surface people's websites and content in the app itself and we at HubSpot have seen a real increase in traffic coming through the LLMs because of that it's much more prevalent that your website is one of the sources is it's not just buried as a link. They're doing the actual website in little containers. So, I'll stop there. I can go in any direction you want, but I think that's that's somewhat where we are. And then I'll end with the thing you and I I think are fans of is AI. I think as a marketer, you can do much more marketing because AI gets rid of a lot of the admin overhead. Oh, do you know how many So, your point you said my superpower is awareness, attention, right? My I've always been the ghostriter for CEOs, founder. I've always been like, "Oh, we need Dave to make the deck." Best thing to ever happen is Canva, AI, Gamma. I see you guys talking about Gen Spark. Like, that's so good. If I had this stuff back then, man, I would have been like, "CEO, we're sitting down in the room. I'm going to interview for an hour. I got the transcript. I'm going to go make the slides. I don't have to wait." You know, it just would always be a cycle of waiting for a designer or waiting for a developer. Oh my god. Okay. You're touching on something. I have never been so happy to be a marketer. So I know like people are scared. I I'm freaking so excited. Keip and I talked about this. I love doing the craft. I can actually do all the things that you're So basically I can create the design. It's like I can actually be way more autonomous because I actually think I have good ideas and know how to execute. If you're that person, I think this is amazing. I agree. So, one of one of the the the pivotable the pivotal moment of my career was I was working at Drift. David Kz was a founder and CEO was like I I was just seeing what everybody was doing in the world and I was like I got to become this like growth marketer. I got to become the like funnel, you know, I got to become like the demand genen guy if I want job security. And he was like he you know visionary found he was like no. He's like absolutely not do not do that. He's like, "You have a superpower, which is creativity, storytelling, copywriting, awareness, attention." He's like, "Just double down on that stuff." And like, "We can hire other people and agencies and whatever to do that." And that is now why like I'm I'm not joking to you. I was like pretty burnt out on marketing. I was like, "Man, I've been doing this for a long time." But the last two years have been like, "Oh, no, no, this is re rel. I want to make videos. I want to do creative. I want to do story. I don't want to be sitting in the meeting looking at the funnel, you know. Yeah. I wish where this is like real therapy here. I was the same two years ago. I was like I I I've I've done a lot. I've been, you know, luckily had some success. I was like, I I'm going to just go to the, you know, steady state. I thought I was going to go do VC or do just steady state, right? Yeah. And then I got into AI and I just was reawakened like for the very same reasons that I think I can just do a ton of cool [ __ ] Like each and every day you can execute. you have someone that can you can you can get through things much faster. I do think um there there I don't know if you feel that there is something that I have started to become more cognizant of for people who are really in the weeds is like AI fatigue at the end of the week I feel maybe because I have a toddler as well but I feel more tired than I ever feel because you're really doing stuff. You're not like you're not having to like wait a day for someone to come back and another day for someone to come back and another day for someone to come back. The thing the one thing that I have to try to like hold myself back is the multi the ability to multitask is uh that's the thing I'm trying to hold myself back. Last night I was like prototyping a software app. I was trying to solve a hard problem. I was trying to do something legal in a legal situation I'm going through. Not nothing bad, but like in my personal life, I was trying to get the AI to optimize my investment portfolio and I was trying to do something else and it was like half 11 at night and I was like, what am I doing? That's like I Yeah. Yeah. Too much AI. I feel that. I I feel that. I mean, I think that I think that our brains were not meant to multitask. I'm terrible. you know, I'm a uh my team tells me that I'm a good multitasker, but I I see that as that's not a compliment because it means that I am multitasking when I should be focused. And I do find that when I've put in a good day's work, it's usually one or two deep projects, not whack-a-ole or I need to like I need to time box that whack-a-ole. And so like I usually have some time in the morning and some time in the afternoon where that's my like Slack and email time. But the other day, man, I took half the day and I worked on a like positioning vision thing for our company. And I was like I did nothing else. I ignored my text messages, my Slack. It was just me and my chat GPT, you know. But but that that always feels better is that that that deep work. So yeah, any I I like look I think I think like I think anything all these things in life I think history is why I like reading history. I like studying history because what's happening with AI now is what happened with the internet. It's like you can go back to all these technological innovations. There is always people that are claiming that this thing is going to be the end of the world and everybody's doomed. And I think I I appreciate the like let's let's look at the positive and like if you like the craft of marketing then I think there's a lot of positive things here. Now, if you just want to like write a bunch of kind of shitty social copy and like automatically schedule it and blast it out and you think that is marketing, then like of course all that stuff is can can be replaced by AI. But I like the opportunity of like human plus AI like tastemaker creative human working with this like super machine to create stuff like man Don Don Draper plus chat GBT would be like the most insane you know thing of all time. I can I so like the way so the way I think about it for marketers is you have to be a you have to now be at the opposite the opposite end of the spectrum and if you are if you can combine these things you have a superpower which is you have to be incredibly technical because I think AI can be deployed across all marketing workflows and for me you have to think about marketing in some ways like an engineer thinks about solving problems because you look at everything as a workflow and you figure out how AI could be integrated to uplevel that thing reduce the amount of time spent on that and allow the humans to spend 10x more time on the things that are really valuable. So I think there's like the technical thing really matters and I've seen that time and time again. You see roles called these kind of new roles like GCM engineer and all these roles. I think there's like a technical discipline against getting stood up that really matters or or and because if you're a special snowflake maybe you're an and you have to be like at the at the outer edges of creativity because ideiation really matters storytelling really matters copyright really matters like actually the things that you spent your time uh mastering I think those are the most important skill sets to learn at the opposite ends what actually is problematic is the middle portion all the messy middle where you're not actually at the outer edges you're just good enough all the good enough stuff. I actually do think that is going to be problematic. So, I would pick a lane and try to make sure that you are on the outer edges of that lane. Yeah, because like it's so true because the middle can just be like I can just write an average prompt and get the get the landing page copy for like a webinar that we're doing and generate the emails and you know takes five minutes to do that. Okay, a couple questions for you sir. This is great. It's by the way so much must be fun for you not hosting your It's always fun when you're not the host. you just get to hang out. But it's much more fun having a conversation with someone who is used to the banter on a podcast. Like you ever interview someone and it's like so next question next question Dave. Yeah, you do the questions uh can I get the questions in advance and then they answer the question and that's I've had some experience early because this is this is my the marketing experience my second podcast. My first one was like this grow growth TLDDR. Uh, I've probably done like you're similar because I know you've been podcasting. I think you've done way more podcasting than me, but I've probably done along with Kip now 700 episodes. Yes. That one and my last one. And like so I think it's actually even if it never grew. Do you think I think this way it's given me a real ability to have clear and concise points of view and think on my feet a lot more. So there is like there is like a you actually learn something by just doing it other than the numbers. I mean I I think it's great. Like I think if if nobody listened to your show but you and Kip riffing on the AI stuff like that is going to inform HubSpot strategy just because you're it's like a comedian working out bits and stuff and I I do it like on these webinars that we host or something like if I make a joke or you make an analogy and I see the chat like light up I literally write that down and then that becomes like it it's it's no different than like writing on LinkedIn or that's where the things come from. like I'm taking notes during this conversation with you and I've gotten a bunch of ideas of like they're essentially bits like okay that I kind of lit up around that one let's let's take that like the funny thing is uh I think the exact same way I think I think of everything in terms of short form content and there so many times Kip and I are talking and Kip is like he's a short he's a bit machine like he says things and I'm just like oh that's good like he has a great way of like framing things and he's not as uh he's vis he's really dialed in on trying to get the podcast there. He's maybe not he's not as like focused on other channels. So, he always sees me take his bit and it appears in one of my channels and I'm like, "Oh, I did your bit and then got it ton of traction." He's like, "Okay, cool. Love that." All right. Somebody uh All right. So, so I did I did get a couple listener questions. Um somebody said, "Kieran is a prompt genius. Get him to share some of his prompt frameworks to help marketers find whites space where they can't be replaced uh by AI." Another way to say this and this is my chatbt like uh you know iteration on this is uh you've said that prompting is a new literacy. So what makes someone an expert prompter? How do marketers learn that skill and how do you train your brain to think in in terms of prompts? Prompting I so I can tell you what I do. Um, I don't think I'm any I think I'm never this the smartest person doing these things, but I I've I get I'm I'm very very quick at iteration and very very good at uh perseverance. And so I I'm looking at it here. I have like 12 different custom GPTs that are all trained on different prompt methodologies and frameworks. So whenever I find something that works or wherever I wherever I've iterated on something that works I will create a custom GPT so I can conversate with that GBT and it will turn that conversation into a prompt and I can give you the example I did just this morning. So, Curser's uh system prompt late, which is like Curser, these are these are autonomous agents that are working on prompts just like you and I create prompts. That's a $300 billion company. And so, their system prompt leaked. You can go get it. It's online. And so, I went and basically spent this morning with 03 really trying to distill down the core learnings from that system prompt. Then I will extract those core learnings and try to figure out which ones are applicable for like marketing and growth. And then I will train a custom GBT to turn any kind of outcome I want. So one of the examples I did was hey I want a campaign. It should be quirky. It should be 30 days and generate 100 customers. Let's say I ask it for that. It will take the learnings that we took from the system prompt and craft that into a prompt and then I will iterate on that a little bit. That is how I am doing all of the prompts that people see publicly is I have trained custom GPTs on things that I find online that I can use to craft all of these different prompts. One of the interesting things that is going back and forth in my mind is like what cuz someone I get let up on the YouTube comments like you you kind of showed three prompts and you said you wouldn't share one. I'm like should I share it or not share it? And I've realized that at the moment some of the stuff is propriarity. Like it's like you can literally build software apps from this stuff. So I think it's like I I think I think marketers are going to have their own little secret treasure trove of prompts and some marketers are going to be much much better because they figured out some things in that prompt. And how long it lasts for I don't know when the AI becomes much better. Okay. Okay. Well, I'm going to I'm going to try I think my key takeaway from from Kieran for everybody listening on that is like and this is where I make a mistake is I sit there and I try to think of the prompt that I need to write. You're very much like an action and this is why like you know for for marketers have always had a swipe file and basically if you have a curious mind and you're seeing things around you that you like grabbing them using them as examples using them to integrate into the prompts even asking you know writing prompts to help you write a prompt like hey here's the thing that I'm trying to solve what would be the way you know what would be the questions that you'd want to ask to get there exactly yeah the swipe file is a perfect anal again it's think it's how you train yourself to think everything I see I'm like that I could I could take that and turn that into some sort of prompt in GBT. Yeah. Well, it's help it's helped me work, you know, I've I've I've um always had strong opinions on marketing, but I'm not a designer and so I don't I don't speak the language of I don't, you know, like the padding and this vector. I don't know that nonsense. But now it's amazing because if I'm working with a designer, I can basically find design things that I like and I put them in chatbt and I say, "Hey, can you describe the similar like here are three websites or three aesthetics like tell me about them, tell me what you like." And then now I sound like this very, you know, cultured designer when I'm working with a creative person. It's great. Okay. Yeah, we we don't have all the I got I gota I got to hit on some more uh uh things with you. Um what do you think about the role? So we've talked about you know a little bit about the marketing team. What maybe just a these are all kind of kind of quickish answers if you can. Uh the the role of the CMO in in the future. What do you think is going to change about the CMO CMO role in B2B marketing? Uh I think it's going to be like what we've talked about a craft person practitioner smaller team less people management me less having to move boxes around more actually can do the job. Um I suspect like you your story was hey that's why I didn't like being in Simo cuz I didn't get to do that. I think and I hope that we gra we we go back towards people who actually are crafts people. Yeah that would be nice. That'd be fun. That's how I could be somebody's CMO. That would be great. Um uh here's a listener another listener question. Uh okay Karen if 95% of what agencies offer today is automated by AI. How do you see creative shops say video production companies evolving to best serve marketers in the future? Video specifically video shop but I think agencies in general will instrument agents for companies. So you will I think that's one of the better services is you take the thing service you do and you customize it for that company and give them aic workflows. That's what I would do if I was an agency. Another trend, this is not this is not necessarily related to AI, but um I interview hundreds of marketing leaders every year and have done so for the past, you know, God knows how long. And the number one trend over the last two or three years, there's AI. The other one is inperson and in-person everything. And it's like there's kind of two ends of the spectrum. It's like, and you talked about this earlier, either you're going to get your answers and information from the LLMs or you're going to like go and talk to your your peer group. Um, I'm just curious how how you feel like do you agree with that trend? Are you seeing that too where it's kind of like these we either want to like hang out with our people or talk to Chad GBT like everything gets polarized. I actually think the want for people to be part of a community, a tribe, the want for people to have human interactions where they add value. I think maybe that's the part right is like where it adds value. So you can automate all of the places that used to be friction and add humans in where they actually add real value. But I definitely think if the bet I was making is like inerson events, communities, things that give you a mastermind groups, things that give you a tribe are going to be way more in demand. I think it's more and more of our day-to-day interactions move towards AI. Yeah, we do we do a bunch of uh we do a bunch of events and and basically we have spons, you know, we have we have sponsors who do stuff across all of our channels and everything and everyone we you know, if I had a team of 50 people, we could keep up with the demand right now. But it's like if if we could do a dinner in a city every week or a meetup like everybody wants to do those types of things and it's um I think the smaller meetups as well I think are great. Oh yeah. I think the thing you should do here's like I'm not an events person. Poker nights I want events like I think all events should do poker nights. I think that's the thing I would I think poker is like one of the most awesome social gathering games and events all do that. Well, I think in in that case like poker, poker might be your thing, but I think there's like um you know, people want to play pickle ball. People want to go for a hike. It's not just like and nobody drinks anymore, so it's like, you know, nobody wants to meet up and have a drink. And so it's like everybody's, you know, we're doing activities. Okay, quick quick hitters for you. Uh what's the most overrated AI marketing use case? LinkedIn comments. I just I I don't I don't know if you've ever seen my I just have fun now. I just I just like write the most absurd things back to people and like I there's just like you know I'll instantly get 10 comments and it's always the most absurd things and I just I go to chat GBT and I say can you write me an absurd comment back to this person and so I give them like robot Dave um back to that. Um, I was like really good with like the start of a sorry I know I was like the start of the sci-fi movie when you were a kid and it opens up and there's this like incredible future and there's all this robotic stuff and then it pants to the marketer and they're like automated LinkedIn comments with with their AI brain. I don't even like I I just like I'm straight up in the comments like I'll just reply to someone and be like you're not a real person. I can't I can't handle it. Um uh can't say you can't say chat GBT. You can't say Claude. Give me a a third tool that you're using the most right now. Gen Spark. Gen Spark. Yeah, it is awesome. Like it's only a year. It's it's so it has kinks. Uh the founder is is awesome. Exped. But they're there. The first agent they built that I'm really using is uh their presentation tool. I did something was at a offsite in San Francisco. All of my decks that went down really well. Looked like designer had did them all all done by myself. They were done by 03 and me. I think that's the little tip I'll give your audience is like don't do the prompt in Gen Spark. Get the O3 to create the prompt for Gen Spark. Here's a little tip. If you're using other tools, give 03 the technical documentation for those tools and have 03 craft a prompt for the tool. Um interesting. So you would you would go basically write your slides in 03 and then go to GenSpark to build out the deck and copy and paste a prompt and then I would and then I and I literally then will cut and paste the slide image and say hey this has gone wrong. Can you tell uh the the uh the kind of app how to fix this? I do that with lovable. I spend a ton of time in Lovable and I have 03 prompt in Lovable. Okay, I like that. And then you're basically just working out of chat GBT getting your content there going. Man, the deck the deck thing is such a good uh use case. Uh okay. All right. Shout out to Gen Spark. They just got three new users. Um maybe four. Um biggest mistake marketers make when using AI. I think AI copy I think I think you have to be really skilled at both copy and prompting to get it to create something good. I hear this all the time. AI is not a great creative partner. It's because you can't prompt. I promise you that you cannot prompt. Um, it is a great creative partner if you know how to prompt it for content, but most of what I see marketers do is create average content at scale. Dude, I would like I like I like this what you said earlier. It is it's the swipe file idea. It It's not that it's the it's not the tool. It's like if you have a creative mind and you're grabbing inspiration from here and from there and from there and then you give that to Chat GBT, that is that is like teach you what's good. That's actually Greg Brockman, the uh founder co-founder of OpenAI, released a prompt and one of the core things about that is the more specific you are on the outcome, the better the prompt, the better the AI system will be able to do replicated in that. Do you think people care if it's AI generated or not? That is a great question. All right. So, I think in your interactions, like because we're doing a bunch of AI interactions across chat, across other places, you should disclose that this was AI created. Uh, do people would people care if they were reading like a Substack created by an AI influencer? I don't I actually don't know. The only thing I have to go on is some of the biggest and fastest growing influencers on Instagram or AI and people don't seem to have any problem interacting or following them. In your first example, you're saying you're saying if it's a if it's a chat, you should like if you're chatting agent or something. Yeah, exactly. You should never mimic a human with AI and not tell the person they're they're conversating with an AI because I was I was thinking about this like now I was like, you know, we talked to a lot of like agency owners and stuff, right? And if or I'm thinking about my own business. If somebody if somebody if we hired somebody to do a project and they delivered the work for us and the work was amazing and I was totally happy with it and it did the job and then later after the fact I found out it was done by AI, what why would I care? I I don't care. No. No. But but if you are if you read like do you read content for do you read like whoever your favorite newsletter writers are do you read it because it's you gravitate towards those people have a ton of respect for those people and the content kind of fulfills the way you thought think about that person or do you just gravitate towards the the content agnostic of the person I think there's some places will I ever follow an influencer a AI created avatar on YouTube and sign up to their channel I don't know because I think I care about the person more I care about the content. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's like your your the broader point which is like people want it's like people first the influencers. But if but I think if I'm like looking for an answer for something like how to fix a clogged toilet or something then I don't care if it's AI. If it's a functional need I don't care. If it's something I need I don't care. Okay. Biggest lesson you've learned uh becoming a father. Oh god. Um it has to be Wow. There's a lot. I think the the amount of wasted time the amount of time I wasted prior to becoming a father and I'm like what the what did I do what was I doing and why why didn't I build like a rocket ship or something because when you become a parent mentor of mine used to tell me man before I had kids he said man you don't know it but you have nothing but free time right now it's incredible like and then uh and so you have to be very cognizant about what you are spending your time on um I think that's one of my big one of my biggest lessons. The other thing is like I don't know it's it comes back to something you started with which is it's easy sometimes for some people who have had some success in career to say this but like none of this is that serious like you know what I mean there's just like more important things like I try to have fun with it. That's what I try to remind myself is like it's like I see a heated discussion on LinkedIn about like how using the M dash I'm like give me a break dude. What are we doing here? Like this is this is this is fun. Like this is have fun with it. Just have fun with it. All right, we got to wrap up. Kieran Flagan, thank you so much. Finally get to hang out on the pod. This was great. Everyone's going to message me and tell me to have you on again. Um go do me a favor. If you like this stuff, go go check out Kieran and Kip's show. It's called Marketing Against the Grain. They don't want your RSS lessons, they want them on YouTube. So go to YouTube, watch the short videos. But I look, I believe in from a learning standpoint, I like I think decision fatigue is real. And so my kind of the way that I've learned marketing over the years is I've kind of always picked one or two people and gone deep with them. And then for me, so for me, you guys don't know this, but a big part of me learning AI and getting into AI from a business and marketing standpoint has been through your show. And so if you're like overwhelmed by all the AI stuff right now, don't worry about trying to pay attention. There's always that one guy on LinkedIn who's like, "Breaking news, this thing, this just, you know, Kip and Karen will will do a good job on Marketing against the grain of like digesting that." And um you know, that would be nice. Go throw them a couple subscribers and that would make us happy and and maybe we'll we'll get Karen to come back on again soon. All right, cool. Good job. I love being here. [Music]