Expert: ross-simmonds
Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ofe-byzwvpo
Date collected: 2026-06-13
============================================================

Have you ever wondered what in the world is going on with SEO, GEO, AEO, and more? My next guest was the guy who was a part of one of the biggest news outbreaks, scandals in recent search history, the leak that broke down exactly how Google's algorithm worked. This is someone who's been in the industry for over a decade, has contributed to the industry, multiple essays and pieces that have set the internet on fire. But he's not just an SEO. He's also a rapper. Somebody who has collaborated with folks like music soldchild and some of the legends in the hip-hop and rap game. I'm talking about IP rank, also known as Mike King. Mike is one of the leaders in the marketing space. He's someone who I have learned a ton from. And he's someone who I'm excited to see in the flesh at SEO week this year in 2026. Folks, if you're playing the long game, you're in the right place. Welcome to my conversation with Mike King. This is the Ross Simmons Show. All right, Mike. So, we got to start with the elephant in the room. The big thing that's got all the gurus on LinkedIn talking. the thing that starts a Twitter fight every other day >> that at every conference I'm sure you've been asked, but I wanted to be on the record. >> What do you think if there is a difference between this AEO GEO world and SEO? Is there a difference? >> There's definitely a difference. What's your take? I mean, the big difference is that, let me clarify, the the difference is that the things that we always wanted to do for SEO and never could are not optional here. Like, you have to be thinking about a content ecosystem. You have to be working across silos. Otherwise, you're not going to be super effective because these platforms are expecting things in very specific formats. They're looking across a content ecosystem. They are not just looking at your website. And so if you're like, "Oh, well, we're not going to do a Reddit strategy or we're not going to make videos for YouTube." You may be very dead in the water for very specific, you know, um, queryants in prompt spaces. And so what the SEO community is trying to say is like, oh, it's what we've always been doing. Yeah. If you were doing that idealistic form of SEO that no one could actually make happen in these big organizations, fine. But you weren't. And that's the reality of it, right? Like we've contemplated a lot of these things in the SEO space for a long time, but most people weren't actually doing them. And that's reflected in our software, which is like 10 to 15 years behind where these platforms are. It's reflected in the common understanding of how to do these things. So like this whole idea that it's just SEO is is BS at best, right? And then the reality is that there are nuances of difference in these platforms. So again, if we're just talking about like, oh yeah, you got to do some keyword research and then make things. Well, the keyword research is multi-dimensional. Now, you got to be figuring out like what are these synthetic queries? What are these audiences that are searching for these these uh ideas? What nuances of information do they need to have versus this other audience? And most people, if we're being completely real, they they focus on one audience and they write content for that one audience. They're not thinking about a multitude of personas and things like that. So yeah, I mean, you know, again, if if we're talking about the idealistic form of SEO that thought leaders have touted for the last 25 years, sure. >> Yeah, >> it's the same thing for sure. >> But it's not. And also, you know, this is the beginning of these platforms. These platforms are going to continue to mature. There's going to be more direct integrations like Zillow as an example. They have direct integrations with Chat GBT and Gemini. You know what I mean? That's not SEO. That's building a product. So it it's a silly argument and it's one that is >> right >> keeping people in the same place that they were before where people are like, "Oh yeah, SEO, that's those guys that do the meta tags in the corner over there or that weird group that's building links over there or those people that keep talking to us about 301 redirects and things like that." Like there's a very fixed box that that lives in. And if you keep saying that AI search is just SEO, you're going to land in that same place where you're not getting budget, you're not getting resources, and you're not getting the attention that you need to make decisions in an organization. >> I think you're right. Like when you go back whenever there was a talk at one of the SEO events about YouTube or about content, a lot of traditional SEOs would give this feedback and this critique saying, "Why in the world are we talking about Reddit? This is an SEO like event like why are we talking about social like and it's shifted like the the conversations have shifted to these platforms. What would be your advice to someone who may have like in the last two years they jumped into the world of SEO and they thought that they were going to have a professional career as an SEO but they're seeing all of these new things. What would be your advice to them to be able to say like okay I want to get into AEO I want to get into GEO. What would be your suggestions to someone who wants to get into this world now, but they originally thought it was an? >> Yeah, I would say first thing, read our AI search manual. That's probably the most comprehensive source. >> That's a good call. I'll include a link to that in the >> Yeah, we we talk through the whole thing. Like here's what you do. Here's how you do it. Here's how it works. Like all that sort of stuff. But the [clears throat] most important thing is to play with the tools, play with the platforms, see how they operate, see what happens when you put your content in there, see how you show up. Like measure where things stand and then figure out like where do you want to be and then work on getting there. You know what I'm saying? Like again, there's going to be some overlap in what you do for classic search. So use what you know to start and then continue to learn and add on so you can understand those nuances of difference. But I want to go back to what you said about, you know, people saying, "Oh, why are we talking about this in SEO?" SEO is so funny in that way where they're like, "Oh, that's not SEO." And then they try to like commandeer it once it gets popular. >> And also, when you go back to social media, you know, >> um, back in like 2011 when like social media marketing was like, you know, maturing at the beginning, >> right? >> People were going to SEOs for that. They were like, "Oh, we need social metadata. You guys do metadata, so why don't you do the social metadata?" "Oh, help me with this strategy." Like, I was getting pulled into so many social media conversations. And it's kind of similar to what's happening right now where it's like not clearly defined and you're like, "Well, I know a group that's doing something similar." And when you when you think back to that, a lot of content strategists were the people that were getting tapped for social media stuff as well. But then the social media marketers realized like, hey, this can be its own vertical. It's its different thing. They made it sexy. They made it expensive. They made it all these things where they define what the world thinks of social media. >> Whereas right now, we're trying to like shoehorn it into SEO and then you're just going to miss out on the opportunity. >> Yeah. Do you think there's something that folks are missing when they go down that path? Like what is it that they're missing when they are so adamant that it's >> they're missing the big picture? >> They're missing how an organization functions. They're missing the seauite perspective on this >> cuz the seauite is coming over and being like, "Hey, why don't we appear in chat GBT? What do we need to do? How much money do you need from me? What resource?" like they're giving you a blank check in a space where people keep talking about spending trillions of dollars and you're being like, "Oh, no, we got it covered. It's the thing we've always been doing," which one isn't getting you the results in this environment at that level. And two, requires different things >> to execute on, >> right? >> So, you're missing the big picture. And I mean that that's really like SEO's problem in general that we don't we're not we're not a big picture thinking industry. We're a tactical industry that's like, "Oh, tell me about the red X and the 301 redirects and all these other things when really we are a marketing function that is a technical marketing function for sure that needs to be able to connect value to what we're doing and that's been a challenge for everyone in this space for so long." >> Yeah. All right. You guys are deep into AEO, one of the first on the industry to be talking about this stuff. AEO, GEO, AI, SEO. You guys are early. Talk me through something that a CMO can advise their team as an experiment that they should run in the next two quarters. Like they're listening to this, they're like, I'm bought in. What can I say to my team to to get them to feel empowered to go and run an experiment? And what would that experiment look like? Do you have any suggestions for how they can guide their teams as a first step? >> Yeah. And just to keep it simple and and something that will be high value and show impact right away, >> I'd say focus on video. I'd say look for a space where your organization, your brand does not have video content and is relevant to what people are looking for in these LLMs and make five videos for that space >> with the goal of appearing in AI search and then follow all the things you see us talking about like all the query fan out stuff, incorporate that into how you're structuring your videos, things like that and do that as an experiment and you know it's going to take you a while to make videos like that's just how it works unless you're using Genai which is fine um roll those out measure it measure before and after see what the impact is and then do it again and then think about like okay what are other the what are the other surrounding assets that can go with these videos as the next stage so let's say you've got 10 videos now right how are we going to slice those up where we going to have them live what's the content that we're going to write around those videos when host them on our site. Uh, do we also want to use the the audio from them? Like, I mean, I'm talking to the repurposing guy, right? Like, do all the stuff that Ross thinks [laughter] about, like, use that content, remix it in a ton of ways, and then keep putting it out. >> Yeah. >> And then continue to measure your performance in this these channels. And I guarantee you, I guarantee you like that's going to yield an improvement. And that can be your case study to then look for ways to invest in this moving forward. So, someone's listening and they're like, "Wait a minute. We're talking about AI, SEO, GEO, AEO, SEO. Like, aren't we just blog posts? Aren't we just landing pages? We optimize that stuff with text and metadata. You're talking about video. What's making you even bring up video? Why is video a part of this conversation?" >> Yeah. So, for AI search, it's all about your content ecosystem. So, your shared, owned, earned properties. It's not just about your website. Your website is just one of the inputs. And this is part of why you're seeing people uh go back to micro sites, going back into guest posting and digital PR pretty heavily because these systems are looking for consensus and information across a broad query set. So when you go back to this idea of the query fan out for anyone that doesn't know how this stuff works, I'll give you a two second overview. Um >> yeah, >> 15 second overview. All of these systems are governed by what's called retrieval augmented generation where you're combining a large language model with a search engine. They're not just looking up the query or prompt that you put in. They're extrapolating them to a series of synthetic queries and something called query fan out. There are expectations for content formats for those different subqueries as well. And so they're looking for that across, you know, multi-dimensions at this point, right? And then they're using the user context as a filter to determine whether or not they're going to use that content to feed to the large language model. and some ultimately you need to be plugging the holes for those content expectations and you know Reddit is the number one cited source, YouTube is the second most cited source. So that's why I'm saying that video is really valuable here because you very quickly see an impact and it's to some degree a higher barrier of entry because it is more difficult for people to make videos. So once you've got that there, you will see long-term performance. >> I love it. That's great. One of the things that not a lot of folks listening might even know about you is that you run an event that is arguably and I've heard it from people. It was the dopest SEO event in history. Um SEO week. And what I want to know is like what was the gap that you were trying to fill when you've rolled this event out? Um, the inaugural was one of the best SEO events that I've attended. The lineup was insane, brought out some of the best speakers, and you're doing it again. So, what was the gap that you saw in the market that was like, I need to create this thing and bring it to >> Yeah, it started from recognizing that New York City hadn't had anything for a long time, like post pandemic, you know, there was no SMX East anymore. We used to have like a variety of things that popped up in New York for SEO. And then what ended up happening was there was a series of events that all happened in the same week and I was like, "Oh, >> why don't we make this SEO week and um right, you know, originally I I'd been talking to Lily. I was like, "Hey, let's do this together." >> And uh there was just wasn't any real movement on that. And so I was like, "Cool, I'm just going to do it." And then once we're talking about an event, I'm like, "How do we maximize this?" this like I'm not just trying to have another hotel conference center and you know boring or excuse me not boring but like >> like low production value like I'm not just trying to do what you see everywhere and so >> I was like [snorts] all right cool let's make it a week let's get you know the best speakers I know of let's do it in an environment where there's like projection mapping so we have all this like immersive stuff on the walls for the afterparty let's throw an actual concept concert and let's just be like really meticulous about the details. Like how do we >> improve on the things that we don't like about other shows and you know I mean the content is is what matters most. So like all that other stuff is ancillary >> if you don't get the content right. And so you saw the email I sent to the speakers. I was like look I know you're all tempted to like show us how you use chat GBT. Like I'm not that's not what I'm here for. Like I need y'all to really dig in and give us like really actionable stuff >> and make sure that you know at minimum you spend five minutes on the actionable portion of what you're talking about. And that ultimately really resonated with you know everyone that um attended. >> And so for this year I'm like all right how can we do it better? How can we do it bigger? How can we improve on certain things? So, as an example, I was really not happy with the chairs and um I actually had them replace the chairs, which like cost us whatever it costs, like it's probably like $10,000 or something like that. Um and then I I I still wasn't happy with the chairs. And so this year I'm like, "All right, we we spending money. Like, let's get these chairs right." You know what I mean? And that's the thing, like I don't think most of the conference organizers >> care about things like that. I think they're just trying to >> right >> maximize profit or whatever it is. And and that's not really the focus for us. Like we're going to lose money. We lost money on that last year. But >> I think the value that we brought and also the value that we get out of the content, the people that we get to meet, like there's so much value in that. and also just bringing the community together and you know kind of putting a a stamp on like here's where things are heading and that was one of the things I was most proud about is a lot of the content that you saw at all the different conferences following us started at SEO week >> so it's my hope that and you know I mean part of that as a function of us being early in the year but also part of it was like the push to make sure that we all leveled up in what we were delivering as well. So, um >> I love it. >> Yeah, we just want to do it even bigger and better this year. >> So, one, tell folks when it is, where it's going to be, give them all of that breakdown, how can they get a ticket, and then I have another question about SEO week that I want to jump into. But first, give folks a rundown on where it is, how they can get their tickets, all that stuff. >> Yeah. So, it's the last week in April. Um it's at a a place in a place in Bryant Park in New York City called uh Center 415. And uh you can get your tickets at seoweek.org. org. >> Cool. So, what surprised you the most about SEO week in general? Like you run the event. Has there been any epiphanies for you that like is shaping the way that this whole thing came to life and you were like, "Wow, this specific thing that we did really was different and unique that stood out and it's something that you're going to maintain or maybe evolve and change." What surprised me is that every talk was great. And and I don't say that to like, you know, discount my speakers. My speakers were great. Like you expect them to do great. >> But, you know, no matter where you go, typically there's like a talk or two and you're like, uh, this one wasn't for me or this one wasn't valuable or whatever. >> And I didn't feel that way for anything that we uh saw. So, um, you know, I I feel like we capture lightning in the bottle and I hope we can do it again. But I'm I'm really focused on us working with our speakers to make sure that we have, you know, actionable topics. Everything is of value. Even even if it isn't like, oh, this is my thing or I need to go execute on it. It is like eye opening in some way where someone gets a takeaway that they can apply even if it's in like cross channel conversation or whatever. Yeah, I love it. There's a lot of hype right now and buzz and conversations happening about AI. As someone who's in the forefront of a lot of the stuff going on in the industry, I'd love to know how are you using AI to build, to create, to execute, to run iPing you today. >> Yeah, I'm I'm starting to get heavy into the whole agent thing. You know, how people Twitter be like, "Oh, I've got 40 agents all running at the same time." I'm not quite there yet, but I I hope to grow to that because I'm trying to improve efficiencies everywhere. The thing that I'm doing the most of right now is building tools for the team to like reinforce process again, making us more efficient. So, there's a few pieces of software that I've built over the last like month or so, uh, that align with our different deliverables just to make things a lot faster for us. Um, and my workflow typically starts from I'm either in Gemini or I'm in AI Studio and I'm like, "Hey, I want to build this app." >> And, you know, I I get it to a point where it's like workable or working in AI Studio. A AI Studio is remarkable. And then what I do is I download it and I take it to anti-gravity and then I finish it in there because AI studio only really does front-end apps whereas anti-gravity can do um you know the whole the whole full stack and so >> right >> because one of the common concerns that people say about vibe coding is like oh you can't really build production apps not true not true >> so what I do is in anti-gravity is I basically >> rebuild the backend so that it works in uh uh Google Cloud and then I push it to Google Cloud so that we have a tool that the team can use. So that's what I'm doing the most of. Um the team is also building a lot of like automated workflows with like NAN and AOPOPS and things like that. But the whole name of the game right now for me is efficiency because I think clients are going to wake up in the next two years and be like well you guys are like there's all this AI. Why are you guys still doing things manually? So, I want to get ahead of it and get to the point where we're understanding what is the unique value that a human can still bring in this environment. And that's another thing that's kind of sad to me as I'm like watching the conversation in SEO. People saying things like, "Oh, you can't automate SEO." You 100% can. And I'm not saying that, you know, you should just be letting all these bots run and like do things without you knowing. Like, yeah, don't do that. Everything you build should be human in the loop where you're reviewing things and saying, "Cool, my expertise says don't do this, do that." There's no reason that folks shouldn't be doing that. >> And they keep touting these things where people are like, "Oh, I made I automatically made a million pages and then, you know, the traffic shot up and then it dropped off." Yeah, of course that happened. There is this middle ground where you're leveraging the tools. They're doing a lot of the minutia work and you're making decisions. That is what the true automation for SEO looks like. >> Let's get tactical on that. What would be an example of how you would allow AI to support you with some of the minutiae, so to speak? >> Yeah. So, I think internal linking is a good example, right? Like cuz you could >> crawl and vectorize your site and then have it automatically build your whole internal linking structure, >> but it's not taking into it's only going to look at like the relevance. It's not going to take into account of what's the most important things for the business. And so you should be weighing in like your tooling should be set up where it's like, hey, I've put together a draft. Here's what I'm thinking. Give me business rules to follow. Cool. I'll put together another draft. >> All right, you now review that. Cool. Let's move on. You see what I'm saying? Like that's >> right >> the human in the loop idea where it's like you are looking at the nuances that matter to your business. >> And even that scalable content production thing I don't think is as big of a problem as people are making it out to be because one, Google specifically still cannot reliably identify generated content by itself. like they can't use that as a signal single signal to say like I'm not going to use this content. [snorts] >> Instead, what they're doing is they're doing what they do in all the other environments using user interaction signals to reinforce what should rank and what shouldn't rank. And so >> common things you see with content from generative AI, high bounce rate, low time on site. >> Those are UX problems. Those are not generative AI problems. Those are not AI search problems. Those are problems that you did not design your content in such a way that it's going to work in this environment. And there's a lot of ways to approach that. It's really like building the right content models, making sure that you're surfacing content in the way that users want and um you know giving clarity to answering questions, right? And so if you structure your content that way, that Genai content, even if you're scaling it to millions, can work really well, especially if you're able to incorporate data points that make the content a bit more unique. So it's really, right, >> a data engineering, content engineering, and UX problem that needs to be solved, but people are just being like, "Let me spin up a million pages and not think about it." >> Right. Yeah. Yeah. And it's it's always hilarious watching some of these folks announce and celebrate. Oh, look at our rocket ship and how much growth we're doing. And they celebrate and they announce it and then they are all surprised when it gets their site tanks just a few weeks later as if like oh what what happened here? Like what's your advice to someone who may have been convinced by the hype of programmatic SEO? They connected their CMS to one of the AI tools. They published thousands of pages, thousands of blog posts and they're having that dip. How do they get back? What would be your suggestions? Are they dead in the water [snorts] or can they >> So it it's difficult because one of the things that Google has been doing more of is indexing less content and they effectively will index content, give it a chance, see how it performs and if it's not performing well, they may stop crawling it, they may not index it anymore, things like that. So, if that has happened for a page type, you're probably going to have to put that on a new section of the URL in the site with a a new structure of content. I'm not saying you can't recover on the original URLs. It's just going to be a lot more difficult, right? So, first step is really auditing your content and figuring out like where do we go wrong? and pulling in the the analytics is going to give you a lot of information like where which of these pages have that load time on site, have the high bounce rate, aren't yielding the um conversion metrics that you want, and then which ones aren't. >> Yeah. >> And in some cases, it can be just a poor alignment with the query, like you're not answering the questions, you don't have the data on the page, but for whatever reason, it ranks right. So it may be like realigning it around the right keywords, but it's most likely like you didn't have what a user actually wanted. And so once you want identify what that is, it may be a function of doing the content audit. It may be a function of competitive analysis to see what's performing. Then you've got to figure out like, okay, how do we make this better in alignment with those expectations? A lot of it is likely going to be getting rid of existing content and focusing on an area where you can be really good because often times when people start spinning up thousands of pages, it's a bunch of random topics. It's not like focused on uh what your site talks about and they're they're going like all sorts of highfunnel whatever whatever, right? >> [snorts] >> So focus in on the area that works that you know a lot about that is in alignment with your uh offering and then build that content out and then build another like topic cluster and keep going that way until you've got something of value that's really dialed in. And that's not to say that you can't use programmatic SEO for this. You can. You just may need a different data set to support each of those pockets of topics, >> right? I love that. Think about some of the workflows that you folks are using with AI. Is there any one that stands out as like this is the most important AI workflow that we've adopted at IPL rank or that you're using even as like the leader of the company? Like [snorts] what's what's going on in terms of workflows? >> I mean, again, it's it's around efficiency, right? Like cuz there's a lot of things that we do in our deliverables that I've not seen other SEO companies do largely because it's a lot of work to do them. Like there's a lot of manual segmentation work that we've always done. Um then there's a lot of like natural language processing features and uh metrics that we compute that SEO tools typically don't. So the workflows are largely that we've like built a series of endpoints that'll allow us to calculate those things and then people on the team can stitch them together as needed. So it's not like oh you you only have one sort of output. You have the flexibility to build the output that you need from these various endpoints that we have and >> right >> that's ultimately a game changer because it just speeds up the work dramatically. Yeah, I like it. So, right now listening to us is probably some young person who wants to be Mike King someday. They're fresh out of school. They are hungry. They're ambitious. They're going into this industry thinking there's so much change. It's exciting. Lots going on. Give some advice to them. What should they be doing right now? So, when they fast forward 15 years, how long have you been in this? 20. 20 this year. >> How many? >> 20. >> So fast. They want to be able to fast forward 20 and say that they've built like a a great career here. Um what advice do you give that person today? >> It's the same. Stay curious. You know, things change so much and if you're just like, "Oh, I do things this way." You're going to get left behind super fast. So, I would say stay curious and also build something. And I'm not saying build software even though you can, but like pick a thing and build it, right? Whether it's a blog, whether it's an e-commerce shop, whether it's a a tool, like whatever it is, pick a thing, set a goal, make it happen. You're going to learn way more from doing whatever that is, and also in alignment with what you care about most, what you value most than reading somebody's blog post, listening to me talk, you know what I mean? like being able to >> build something and and reference the nuances of how you did it >> is way more um attractive in someone I'm looking to hire than an MBA than any of that sort of stuff. Like >> being able to do something is what I care about more than anything else. Would you say that same advice would apply to some of the folks who might have been in one of the like unfortunate situations right now where like you're seeing massive consolidation within these large holding company agencies where they're laying off thousands of people pretty much we're seeing layoffs in the industry left right and center right so the folks who might not be just getting started they're already in their careers they might be five years in they might be 15 they might be 20 years in but they're open for work in the world do they do. What's your advice to them? >> Yeah, I think there needs to be some reskilling, especially if we're talking about or upskilling rather. If we're talking about people from holding company agencies, in my experience, they don't know how to do things. They know how to talk about things. They know how to like put together a deck, but a lot of the the knowledge in those organizations is like super out of date. So I would say, you know, again, spend some time being curious, doing some research, playing with things, building things so that you can figure out how things actually work. And that's going to make you a lot more valuable because especially if you go from hold agency to like in-house somewhere, people that work in-house know how to do stuff, you know what I mean? And so you go over there and you're just talking like a consultant. They're like, "Cool, but what are you going to actually do?" >> Right. Right. Can you deploy? Can you execute? like what have you built? You can't just give the theories of BFU, Mofu, etc. You have to be able to execute as well. Yeah. No, that I hear you. Um, when you think of the best SEO teams, and I would say like you guys are building what you're like you're try, everyone's trying to build one of the best SEO teams. When you think of five years from now, what or three years, let's do a bit of a shorter term. What do you think is going to differentiate those who really thrive and those who might not even survive? Like what's going to be key for a strong SEO team three years from now to be able to to thrive? >> Yeah, we live through the last decade where technical skills were optional, where it was like you could be a content marketing SEO and like >> you know do fine. I think that's over because content is a commodity that is free now. You know what I mean? Like anyone can create content >> and so building the technical skills around AI is the is like required at this point. It's not like oh well someone else will do the prompting or whatever it is like >> it's going to be gerine to every role. So if you're not able to, you know, leverage these tools, and at the end of the day, everyone should be able to. You literally just talk to them, you know what I mean? But >> yeah, >> um, you know, the the idea right now is that there's infinite content available. Um, and there's no excuse for anyone's feed to be boring at this point because we all have the technology where we can effectively make MCU films just by describing it. So I think very soon people are going to recognize that especially as like you have a whole generation that grows up with this technology and the bar for what content is going to be is going to be a lot higher and everyone is going to be able going to need to be able to contribute to that otherwise they're going to be very obsolete very quickly. So in a nutshell the technical skills >> related to using AI are going to be required for everybody. I love that. I think like being able to work your way around terminal has never [clears throat] been more important and it's easier than ever because you can use like cloud code, you can download like warp a skin over top of it and you can like talk natural language and it will do code related tasks for you. Technical elements can be done. someone who's like hesitant to do this stuff, do you think they will be able to find a way or do you think it's like you you have to lean in in this new age into the technical side? You have to be able to embrace these tools or do you think they can find a way to still make it work or no, not at all. >> So there will always be like the boutique artisal like we don't use AI people and and that that can be a thing, you know. Um, and there there will be some function of the world that wants that, >> but it's going to be comparatively quite small. You know, I don't think, >> right, >> I don't think the world at large is going to be like, well, let's not use this technology that makes everything easier. You know what I'm saying? And it's one of those things where >> if the world outside of you is moving so quickly in this direction and you're not, you're just going to get left behind. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> So, yeah, I don't I don't think that is a smart approach for most people. >> Yeah. I was reading a piece the other day and it was talking about like when you look at some of the most influential geniuses of all time, they had two things that they care deeply about. It could be painting in their craft. It could be philosophy in their craft. It could be music and their craft. And you're one of those people who has a entire rap career. You have an entire CEO career. you have two things that you take very seriously and have thrived in. How do you juggle the duality of these two things? Um, at the same time, >> I don't I don't juggle it well at all, but there's a lot of overlap. [laughter] There's a lot of overlap between the things, right? Like for for me, the >> What? How is there overlap? You're gonna have to dive into this. What do you mean there's overlap? For me, like the creative experience of writing a rhyme is very similar to writing code or writing a blog post, right? Like [clears throat] I'm I'm I'm someone who's like heavy on synthesis of like two things that don't go together and making them go together to create something new. And um >> right, >> you know, like obviously I'm I'm considered quite technical in the search space. I'm also considered quite technical as a rapper like you know multi-yllable rhyme schemes and all that like >> there there is nothing that's been done with rap that I haven't done you know what I mean well aside from winning a grant but I mean like with a verse >> any technical thing I've done and >> so yeah and then there's the performance aspect of it right like >> true speaking >> performance that's fair >> exactly like when I get on stage at a conference what's the first thing I say make some noise. That's how I start my shows. You know what I'm saying? So like there's a lot of overlap for me and they kind of scratch the same itch for me cuz like if if I sat down and wrote a verse right now, I could get that done but then I would not have the energy to write a blog post and vice versa because it they come from the same >> place for me. But yeah, I'm not good at juggling them because I I do have such a >> big vision for everything I'm trying to do, >> right? and they all require a lot of energy to make happen. So yeah, there's no real juggling for me. My life is triage. >> This is a question that a lot of people have been getting asked in the entrepreneur world. How often are you thinking about music or SEO AEO in the business? Like is this a daily thing for you? And I know it's a silly question to come from me to you, but I wanted to hear it on record. Like do you think about this stuff every day? Yeah, I mean both of them I think about every day. And and the thing is, you know, >> music isn't a hobby. It's also a business, right? Like I own businesses in the music space. I throw events. >> I release records. So it's like >> it it's a business for me as well. Like there's literal LLC's that I have for this. >> Uh it just doesn't make anywhere near the amount of money of my marketing stuff, >> right? So, you know, every day like again it's a function of what that day needs. Like one day might be >> 90% marketing, 10% music. One day might be 100% music. One day might be 100% marketing. Like it just all depends on what that day needs. >> That's fair. Over the last 20 years, what has been the most pivotal moment for you, the biggest unlock that kind of set you up on this trajectory for your career? I mean really it's been in the last two years like the Google leak documents and then followed by all this AI search stuff >> like obviously you know I've been training for this moment for the last 20 years but like >> the last two years have really unlocked things for us but you know like all the little things leading up to that like all the talks I gave the reputation I built the things I've shared with the community are the things that prepared us for these these moments, but you know, ever since the leak, things have been all hockey stick, >> right? Right. I love it. In this new world, I think you already mentioned it that it's going to matter more than ever. Um, tech SEO matters. How should folks prepare for that? Like, what would be your advice? Is it like is there any go-to resources where they can start to kind of sink their teeth in if they're like, I haven't I don't know what terminal is. I don't know how to write code. Like, where should those folks go? Code Academy, where where should they go? >> I mean, I don't really think you need any of those things anymore, right? Like, I think you can just go to one of your LLMs and start asking it questions like, "How do I do this thing? Help me do this thing." Like, we can all learn by doing at this point, which is the difficulty for so many of these uh companies and websites that they're effectively obsolete because these platforms exist, right? Like, you used to have to go to Stack Overflow. You don't have to do that anymore. >> You know what I mean? you all these like sites that and like you just said code academy like I don't need that. I can just be like hey >> right >> here's a language I don't know I want to build this thing help me build it and all right now help me debug it all right help me understand what you wrote like that is always going to be the better way to learn how to do things. So yeah, I would say like start from a problem and it could be a simple problem like you know how do I do this on the command line or or help me build a landing page or whatever it is and then use that to learn whatever it is that you're looking to learn. The difficulty though is that >> people will just solve the problem and then not look any deeper into it. Like they may not look at the code that was written. They may not ask questions and you know it's gonna make people a lot more lazy and a lot more dis a lot less discerning as well. >> That's fair. One of the things that people are oftentimes wondering is like okay AI is it good for the environment? Is it bad for the environment? What about the artists? What about the musicians? What about the people whose content is being scraped? And I didn't think of this until like this moment. And I'd be very curious to get your take on it as someone who's an artist but also in the AI world in general. like what is your take on AI? Not from the business hat, but more so from the artist's hat. Like what do you think of it >> as a rapper, as a musician? Like what's your thoughts there? >> Yeah. I I have a lot of thoughts there. Um on the environment, like yeah, that sucks, but it's here and it's not like going back in the >> Yeah. Like what do you want me to do? You know what I'm saying? Like are we going to stop driving cars alltogether too because that's ruining the environment. Like it's here, right? Yeah, >> on the artistic side of it, I think it's very difficult >> for, you know, artists themselves because think about people that like draw things and, you know, like like painters or people that do cover art for albums and all that sort of stuff. >> You don't have to pay those people anymore. >> And that's both bad and good. It's it's bad for their livelihoods. It's good for you because now you don't have to wait or deal with, you know, these weirdo artistic types. But it's not necessarily a good thing for >> the human condition, if you will, >> as far as like um musically, you know, I think that there's some difficulty there as well, but it's the same as when things like Sorado came out or the MPC came out where it was like, you know, you now have new capabilities. Sure, you could use those things in in the older sampler environment to just like loop a whole record and put the record out the same way like like Puffy used to do or something. Or you could use it creatively like use it where you're, >> you know, building things that are net new based on old things. >> And so, you know, you see examples of like people like Timberland who trained a model or they use a tool called Sono, I think, >> Sunno. and they fed it. He fed it like a bunch of people's beats and then he generated a beat and it has somebody's beat tag in it. Don't do that. >> But do use it in a creative way where you can generate something new. Like I don't think it's cool for someone to be like, "Oh, I'm going to let Chat GBT write my rhymes." But >> I do think it's cool. One thing, one of the things that I've done is I've built a custom GPT where I fed it like a hundred of my verses and then after I write a rhyme, I'll say like, "Hey, how does this measure up to previous raps?" And so that way I get like some >> reasonably objective feedback like, "Is this verse as good as I think it is?" You know what I'm saying? So, I think that there's there's use cases that can be cool, but >> you know, people just will do the easiest thing and and make something that's not cool. I like it. Yeah. No, that's fair. It is easy to just be like, "Hey, give me a prompt on a track and then you just like record it and it ends up having all of those AI isms in it and you think that it sounds good, but it's it's not." Um, and the same thing works in marketing. Like I read blog posts every day where it's like in the ever evolving world of AI search, I'm like, "Oh yeah, you wrote that. [laughter] Human fingers definitely did not write those words." It's crazy. >> Yeah. It makes me It makes me uh hesitant to use M dashes every time I use a M dash in a blog. >> I know. I love my M dashes. Yeah, it's true. I used to use them. >> I keep putting notes like I even intentionally will put like >> Right. Right. It's so crazy. It is. Well, let's go back to the SEO side for a second. So, um I want folks who are listening because there's some seauite who's think listening to this and they're wondering like, okay, how do I show up in AI search? Like, what do I actually need to do? Mike Ross, lay it out for me. If a brand wants to be cited, what should they be doing? >> Yeah. So, the first thing is like how do you get into the training data? So, look at specifically um are you blocking anything for the common crawl specifically because that's going to be one of the the major sources. And um you know, also look at like the what the crawl activity looks like from common crawl. maybe accidentally like serving them, you know, content too slow and then they kind of stop crawling you as much. Then it's really about, you know, ranking so that you can appear in these rag pipelines. And so first step there is measuring for the prompts and queries that you care about, how are you showing up? For the ones that you're not showing up as well as you want, then you're going to want to identify what are the synthetic queries that are associated with that. And so once you do that, then you want to see how well do you rank for those synthetic queries and what is the most relevant passages in your content and how do they stack up against your competitors content. So the thing is like all of this really work the way it works is effectively it's like a a raffle and so think of uh all the passages that you're eligible for ranking for those synthetic queries as your tickets in the raffle. and you want as many tickets as possible. So you're mapping those synthetic queries to your existing content, seeing how they're performing and also what you want to figure out is um what are the different content formats that are expected per synthetic query. So then the the gap analysis is like do we have content? Do we have content in the right format? And then for the different audiences that you're speaking to because the the audience's context acts as that filtering mechanism, how well does your information align with the needs of that audience. So once you have that and the way we do that, it's effectively a giant spreadsheet that's talking about all these different dimensions. And then we say, okay, here's the content plan. These are the things that we need to create to close these gaps. And uh once you've done that, then you publish it. you see how well it does by measuring everything and uh you know just keep doing that iteratively until you get the results you want. Measurement though is really important right like the way that we think about measurement as we stratify it into three different buckets. There's your performance metrics which is what you already use like you know how much referral traffic are we getting? How does that traffic perform once it lands on our site? Then there's your channel metrics. That's going to be things like share of voice uh citation rate, citation sentiment, things like that. And then we have input metrics, the things that you can actually affect that cascade into the performance of those other metrics. So that'll be things like um your synthetic query rankings, it can be your passage relevant scores, it could be your entity salient, it can be your bot activity because again, >> right, >> these bots that are not uh Bing or Google are requesting your pages in real time. They're not using an index. And so how often they are requesting your content gives you a sense of which of your content is most performant and where you want to make adjustments. >> I love it. Very cool. When you think of um the measurement side of things, do you what are most people getting wrong about what matters? like what are you seeing as the most frequent issue with reporting like some of the companies and organizations thinking about AEO, SEO, GEO etc. >> So what is the biggest challenge that I'm seeing beside the fact that most people aren't thinking about those three buckets that we just talked about is the confusion around what these uh visibility tracking tools are doing. And the problem is there's no consistent methodology across tools, right? Like like there's some tools that will ping the chat GBT API and then they return whatever that result is. >> There's some tools that are crawling basically scraping chat GBT from the front end uh and you know they might just do that once. There are some tools that are being smarter about it where they are uh doing the prompts multiple times per day and then taking the average to to calculate what your um share of voice looks like. So I think the biggest problem here is that one there's no consistency and two there's no clarity on what the methodology is and then you've got people who are looking at this and being like well it's probabilistic and you know it can always be different. not understanding that that that's that's also true with Google rankings, which is why Google always gave you an average in Google Search Console, >> right? >> So, I think there just needs to be a lot of clarity around what we mean when we're talking about AI visibility tracking and what the expectations are of any tool that does it. >> What's your expectations around the market for all of this stuff? like where we've gone from an SEO market to an AEO and GEO market which has a whole bunch of new factors. You're talking about video, we're talking about Reddit, we're talking about uh technical SEO still, we're talking about content, we're talking about brand, all these different things. Do you think that the market size for GEO, AEO, etc. is bigger than what it was when it was SEO or do you like do you think that the valuations that we're seeing are meh or do you think the real what's your assessment on the market that we live in and are operating in now? >> First of all, SEO has always been undervalued. It is the biggest referral traffic uh channel on the web. yet it's the one that people spend the mo the least money on. >> And you've got the other side of the channel which literally coming from the same web pages, the paid search side of it, which is considered the most efficient marketing channel and people are spending millions of dollars a month on it and not thinking twice. So, >> right, >> the market is under capitalized from my perspective for classic search. Now, for AI search, we're talking about a different thing that's being valued differently because it's AI. And so, when you see folks like Profound that have reached, >> you know, uh, unicorn status in 18 months, that is a direct reflection of the perceived value of this this channel. It's not that they've usurped anything or they're like faking anything. They built what the market wants and the market is responding accordingly. So, it's really challenging for me to watch the SEO community, you know, complain about their success or complain about these platforms and how they're growing and so on, while the SEO software companies are just like slapping chat GBT on their tools and being like, "Yeah, we got AI." But the reality is that >> they are fundamentally obsolete tools and they have been for a long time. Whereas tools like profound and peak and all these other things, they've built the right thing from the ground up. >> They're not retrofitting, you know, AI search stuff into their platforms. They're building the things that should exist in alignment with what the market wants. and they're winning because of it, >> right? Do you think we're going to see some of the traditional tools vanish or do you think they're going to keep up? What's your lay of the land on the the tool market in this space and where you think it's going to go? So, I I hope that a lot of them use this as the opportunity to like revamp what they've got, you know? Like my hope is that like they're just slapping whatever they can on top right now and then there's a team on the side that's like building what's actually needed >> cuz you know, like SEO is is where I come from. Like I would love I would love for everyone to level up, >> but they're so resistant to it and it it's just like really sad to watch. >> [laughter] >> Yeah, it's true. >> I I think you're right. I think you're on to something there. If you were to build a content strategy from scratch today to grow an agency. I want to give some free game to the agency listeners who are are tuning in. What would be the approach? Like you had laid out a great blueprint early on. You're contributing to Moz. You're speaking at the events. I'll never forget the piece you did with the Smurfs. that's still in my like top 10 maybe top five pieces in SEO history that was ever published. Um, what would be your approach today? Again, you have not you're not you as you are now. You're a new starting know trying to grow. What would be the content strategy? You don't have authority yet like you don't have the trust yet. Like you're trying to break in. >> Yeah. But it would still be thought leadership and this is the moment where that's even easier than it was when I started, right? because like most things were defined when I first came out. And I always tell this story. First time I uh emailed Rand, I was like, "Hey, I want to get involved in this stuff. Like, what do you think I should do?" And this is like 2010. And he responded. He was like, "Don't start blogging. There's nothing left to say." Basically, [laughter] >> right? >> Boy, was he wrong. But anyway, you know, like I I still think especially right now, there's so much confusion. There's so much like >> people not knowing what to do. So I would come in with some original thinking on how to approach this and I would also be really heavy into like researching and experimentation and just sharing everything that I'm building. And you know again the reality is that it's so much easier right now. Like everything that I was building back then I was doing manually. Now I can just talk to a computer and be like yo code this thing for me or help me [snorts] build out this experiment. So, it should really be easier for someone to come out of nowhere and have like some really interesting thinking that no one else does. And then that would be what you build your agency on. It's like we have a different approach. Like I I met a guy recently who has a very NLP AI driven approach to link building where they're only building links based on relevance and they have this whole like process and approach. It was really impressive. It's like it it's a lot of overlap with things that we do, but it was like built out specifically >> for link building. So someone like that could just make that his their whole platform >> and true, >> you know, use that as a way to like set themselves apart. And you know once you do get to a point where you've built that credibility and so on >> there's also opportunity to build your own category which is exactly what we're doing with relevance engineering. So you know we're in a space where there's like a lot of confusion about what's going on and we're like here's a very clear road map of what to do. Here's a framework and methodology for how we do it. And you know, it's not like heavily adopted in our space yet, but I hear a lot of people and see a lot of people when I search for the term that are now talking about this. And so when you've got >> right >> prospects that are hearing about it and then they use that terminology, guess who ranks number one when you search for that term? >> So like you can create your own branded terms effectively on the back of your own thought leadership. >> Yeah, I love that. I will never forget I had a client who ha had had this project that they were scoping out and another agency came in and they had this concept on the slides that said create once distribute forever and the client took a little picture and sent it to me and they were like this is who one of my colleagues brought in to compete with [laughter] and they're using your slogan and I was like this is that's what it's all about. You have to like own a concept, ingrain it, so when people see it, they're like, "Oh, right. Relevance engineering. That's I pull ranked." Like, you can't steal from somebody who owns this phrase. So, I love that. What do you think SEO looks like though five years from now? Like, is it going to exist? Are every is everyone going to wake up and be like, it's something else, or is it still going to be relevant? >> I mean, [clears throat] SEO, something called SEO will always exist, right? and and >> okay, >> there will be people that hold on to this concept forever. You know what I mean? Like that's what they know, that's what they're comfortable with. But >> right, >> my fear, which I think will most likely happen, is SEO is going to fumble the ball on AEO, GEO, >> and then there's just going to be another group that takes it over. >> It might be creative. It might be, you know, these these other groups that exist. Again, like the same way that social media marketing became a thing, there may be another subset of people, whether it's like digital strategists, I don't know who it is, but from what I'm seeing from the big agencies, >> they're not operating on that as though it's SEO. They're like building these teams of >> different sorts of groups and agencies to, you know, tackle that. And I think it's going to be like the the fumble of a lifetime when SEO loses this and other people start driving it. >> Do you think um like for somebody who doesn't want to fumble it? What would be your suggestion to them? Like how do they make that pivot or how are you even thinking about it so you guys don't fumble the bag? Like what's what's your perspective on fumble reduction? I mean that's where relevance engineering comes into play like we are defining here's how we do this. So SEO can keep you know circling the drain the way it's going to do but we have a name for what we do and how we do it and so on and again even if it doesn't catch on in a broad scale there is an identification in the market that this is a way to do AI search. So, we're not necessarily subject to the same things that other people are. And in fact, when people come to us like filling out our contact form or whatever, a lot of them are explicitly naming relevance engineering. We get on the call with them and they're like, "Yeah, we understand the the framework. This is what we want. Our existing SEO vendor doesn't get it." Like literally that phrase, "Our existing SEO vendor doesn't get it," has been said to me at least a hundred times on client calls in the last six months or prospect calls in the last six months. So, um, >> crazy. >> Yeah. I mean, I think that's what it is. Like there's going to be something that emerges whether it's relevance engineering or something else. That's what's going to win here because the expectation for most clients is that it is a different thing. And if that's not what's being reflected back to them by the market, they're going to go to what is reflecting that back to them. >> What's something in the world of relevance engineering, in the world of your client delivery today that you would say most agencies aren't even going to figure out in the next two years and even people are going to listen to this right now and 5% of them are going to say nah and not do it, not think about it, not think twice about it. But you fast forward, they're going to wish they >> Yeah. There's a series of uh content metrics that we've identified that are like if you do this, if you score this way, you pretty much automatically appear in these platforms. And you know, we we talked about some of them. We haven't talked about all of them. Like um >> Patrick on our team, he gave a webinar about this probably a couple weeks ago. But yeah, I'm not in a hurry to share everything that we've identified. >> Fair. Fair enough. That's wild. I love it. That's awesome. Well, Mike, where can folks find out more about you, more about Ipole rank? Um, where can they go? >> Yeah, I ranks and then I'm I rank on all the social channels. But if you hit me up on Instagram, don't expect me to be talking about SEO all the time. [laughter] >> I love it, Mike. I appreciate you. I appreciate everything that you've done for the industry, what you've done for the the overall shifts that are happening in the industry. I appreciate what you've done for the culture as well. Mad love, respect to you and the team for what you guys have built, what you're building, and I'll see you in New York. >> Absolutely. And I can say all those things about you as well. Also, I love that we have this. So now we can point to something to show these folks that we are not the same person. >> That's true. That's true. [laughter] >> I love it. I love it. I love it. Awesome. Thanks, man.