Expert: sam-dunning
Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WCJX-2zG8-k
Date collected: 2026-06-13
============================================================

For months, there's been rumors on what actually works when it comes to AI search. And now, it's time to put those rumors to bed. Google have just dropped their own guide on how to optimize for AI search results. So, AO, GEO, LLMO, whatever you want to call it, and how your website, how your brand can be consistently recommended when it comes to AI search. And this is huge because many loud voices and so-called gurus in the SEO industry have been claiming that AEO and AI search is a brand new playbook. It's a brand new strategy, and this guide is really shutting down a lot of those myths from some of the big and loud voices. So, in this video, I'm going to break down exactly what the new guide covers, what this means for your B2B or SAS business, my thoughts and my concerns, my recommendations to get your SAS driving consistent pipeline and revenue with SEO and AO. And all my thoughts and recommendations are going to be grounded in the data from us working right now with 45 plus active SAS companies to run their SEO and AI search engine over at Breaking B2B. So, with that, let's dig in. So, first things first, this guide from Google was dropped and updated on the 15th of May, 2026. Now, let's break down a snapshot of what the guide covers. So, first and foremost, probably one of my favorite points and something I've been rambling on about for months, months, and months is, is SEO still relevant for AI search? Yes. In short, yes. The best practices from SEO continue to be super relevant in AI features. Google search is rooted in their core search ranking quality systems. And these AI techniques are highlighting content from search index such as SRAG retrieval augmented generation also known as grounding. When it comes to grounding, this is basically when you do a search and usually it's when you're searching for something like specific at the bottom of the funnel. So best X software, maybe competitor alternatives or competitor one versus competitor 2 or you're looking for a specific use case or integration whereby the AI tool has to then search for the information. It can't pull from its own historic data. It does an active search within Google. And with rag, it's probably important to know that also engines like chatbt are pulling from Google search when they do grounding. So super interesting here as well. And then you've got query fan out. So when the models are requesting more information to fetch additional relevant search results to address the user's query. So a top funnel search how to fix a garden that's full of weeds and where it's pulling relevant queries like best herbicides for lawns, remove weeds about chemicals, how to prevent weeds in lawns. Now I like this part that Google have highlighted in a purpley blue here. What about ao geo? And as you probably know already, if you followed any of our content, AEO stands for answer engine optimization. GEO, generative engine optimization. If you're connected to probably anyone in tech, SAS or similar on LinkedIn, you've probably seen in the feed maybe some folks, some gurus saying that AEO is something brand new. GEO is something brand new. Maybe even LLMO is a brand new practice. And Google have said here from Google search perspective, optimizing for generative AI. Search is optimizing for the search experience, thus still SEO. So let's get into what they say you actually have to do. So, we've got create valuable non-commodity content for your audience. Really, we should be doing that anyway. Provide a unique point of view. Super important, especially in tech and SAS. If you want to resonate with your dream clients, that's why customer research is so important, right? Understanding your dream clients problems, frustrations, goals, jobs to be done, motivators, why they choose you, your differentiators in the market, and much, much more. So, you can actually not just rank or be recommended in Google search and AI searches, but actually resonate with your target customer. So if they do see some of your content, it'll get served. Some of your content actually hits home with their pain points, their frustrations, their goals, their motivators, and much much more. So pulling that expertise from sales calls, customer success calls, support calls, etc. is so important. And creating non-commodity content that's helpful, reliable, people first. So you've probably heard of EAT, experience, expertise, authority, and trust is a signal that Google looks out for. So again, pulling from that customer research, also leveraging unique data. If you've got any unique stats on the topic you're writing about or the page you're writing about, any unique industry insights. Again, this is where sales calls, customer success calls, having subject matter expertise involved in that process is super super useful. So the page that you build is more helpful, more educational, more authorative, actually has something different to everything else on the internet. Organizing content in a way that helps your readers. So we're a big fan of bottom line up front when it comes to pages, especially blog posts and articles. So if we're doing a comparison article or a best x listical based article where we're reviewing software tools or platforms doing the bottom line up front. So giving a quick snapshot a tlddr what the the article is about what it's going to cover. Maybe a quick short comparison table and then maybe a section on why you should trust us and of course author bio up top. And this is really important because AI search tools often pull from those quick snapshots and tables up front. So having that early on seems to be super useful. And then of course as you navigate down through your pages making sure they're super visual. Plenty of visuals of your product in action. social proof, maybe customer review videos, client quotes, testimonials. If you've got unique stats, presenting that in a way that's engaging, and also making it really easy for folks to convert if they're on a landing page or article, maybe you've got a fixed sticky call to action that stays fixed as people scroll. Likewise with your menu nav, it stays stuck at the top so people can easily navigate to other pages or grab a demo or sign up for your tool. High quality visuals and video. Again, been preaching this for a long, long time. YouTube videos embedded on relevant pages can be super effective in classic organic search. They can also be pulled from in LLMs and AI search from our experience sometimes seems to give you a bit of an uptick increase in in organic rankings and like we say plenty of high quality visuals. No one wants to troll through the wall of text articles. So splitting up with relevant images and visuals is always smart. Focus on what your users want. Avoid overdoing it. So rather than rambling on to hit a word count for the sake of it, like we say, getting to the point quickly, making sure you're addressing the actual query that someone was searching for, not trying to manipulate Google, and definitely not trying to jam as many keywords or prompts in as possible. And then a nice one here. If you're using generative AI tools to assist in content creation, make sure it meets search essentials standards and not spam policy. If you are on LinkedIn, you've probably seen some of those posts like I generate a thousand blog posts or a thousand landing pages with this clawed prompt. And the issue with that is that especially with Google, sometimes these pages can rank quickly, but then you might see weeks or a couple months later, they suddenly just get tanked. Maybe they conflict with Google's spam policy. Google sees them as lowv value commodity content and all the pages just go completely out of the search rankings and it's possible your website could even get a worse penalty. So that's why having a human in the loop using AI to pull from your research using AI to pull from things like sales calls, customer success calls, support calls, maybe even use an MCP, if you use a sales call recording tool like Fathom or Fireflies or Gong, pulling that into maybe your Claude instance, something we do. Likewise, pulling hrefs into your claw instance. That can really help with adding relevant FAQs onto your landing pages or your articles, giving you ideas from bottom of funnel keywords, and much, much more. And I always say use AI as part of your workflow. Maybe use it to help build the page outline, but then getting that human in the loop so you can actually really resonate with the content you're crafting with your dream buyers. real quick. If you want to start fueling your sales team with a steady stream of leads, demos, or booked calls from SEO and organic search across AI and Google, why not grab a call with myself over at breaking.com. We can chat through exactly how SEO could potentially help your business drive a steady stream of inbound through organic search. Head over to breakingb2b.com or hit the link in description below. Right, back to the video. Moving on, build and maintain a clear technical structure. So, Google have got some search technical requirements. I often say that SAS companies overindex on technical SEO and it's not until you've got thousands of thousands of pages that you really need to overindex on technical SEO. From our opinion, from what we've seen for sites that aren't yet thousands of thousands of pages, hitting the basics when it comes to technical. So, things like making sure your website passes cool web vitals, so a quick page loading speed on mobile and PC. Making sure the money keyword or prompt you're going for when you build out the page, it's within your metatitle and description. It's within your URL. It's within your single H1 on the page. And then like we say in terms of the structure, a nice author bio. You got the H1 and splitting up the sections. So H2, H3 in a coordinated manner. Plenty of visuals woven in. We recommend at least five internal links within each page flowing to relevant pages on the topic. And outside of that, on technical, we're much more concerned about the content engine and then off- page SEO and AI search work. So nailing your money keywords, building solid content for each money keyword or prompt is going to rank, resonate, and convert your dream clients. So you can start to build that moat on your website. and then doing the off- page work. So, link building, brand mentions, and so forth. Next up, we've got following crawling best practices. So, making sure your website is super easy to crawl, and this is where kind of making sure relevant pages are in the main nav where they need to go if they're core landing pages, integration pages, use case pages, ICP pages, etc. Likewise, internal linking can help with enabling Google to crawl it. When it comes to semantic HTML, focus on human readability and don't worry about perfect code. If you're using JavaScript, you follow to be sure to follow JavaScript SEO best practices. Providing a great page experience. So, this comes back to what we talk about, a nice UX, clean menu, nav, pages that are enjoyable to flow through, fast loading site, internal linking, plenty of visuals, video. Got to remember that if you're selling a high ACV, high average contract value solution, folks might not hit your site once or see recommended once in AI search or Google search. Probably going to do multiple visits. There's probably multiple stakeholders that are going to do their research, evaluation, visit your website. So, multiple folks need to get a really enjoyable experience. And when they land on your site, typically they need to get a quick idea of exactly what you do, who you're for, how your offer helps them, why they should choose you. They want to see your offer in action. They want to see pricing and they want to see proof of results. They want to get their questions answered and on the basis you check all those boxes. Then they want to be able to easily schedule a call with sales or sign up to your product. Then we've got reduce duplicate content. This has been a big thing for Google for a long time. So making sure you're not spamming out pages that have all the same content on them can be an issue. And then this is a nice section here. We've got myth busting. Myth busting generative AI search and what you do not what you don't need to do. So we've had a lot of clients ask about this. I also see a lot of this on LinkedIn and other channels. You don't actually need LLMS.ext files or other special markup. Chunking content. This was something that was big when AI search results, LLMs first started coming to play. Now, like I say, what I do recommend is bottom line up front, especially for your articles like blog posts on we reviewed the best X, best 10X software solutions of 2026, competitor alternatives or competitor review or competitive pricing content and so forth. Maybe how-to guides, pricing guides, and much more. So, you're giving the bottom line up front. You're quickly saying, "This is what the article is about. Here's a quick comparison table. This is why you should trust us. Here's a quick summary." and then digging into the content because we have seen that AI tools be it Google AI overviews chatbt claude etc do pull from those rewriting content just for AI systems again this comes back to what we're talking about to actually resonating with target customers seeking inauthentic mentions what we're talking about here is getting other sites whether that's forums like Reddit whether that's review sites whe that's external websites doing listical like the best x software 2026 and so forth whatever it may be doing a write up on your product tool or brand and then mentioning your company maybe even giving you a backlink now we have seen brand mentions be super big especially in AI search like being recommended to chat GBT AI overviews claude and more and this isn't a service we do actually a manually outreach websites that are already ranking well in Google organic or being pulled from an AI search results for your money keywords or prompts around your software or similar so they brand mentions definitely work I think doing it in a doing it in an authentic way is yeah it's a fair point so not just spamming Reddit with a tool and probably getting yourself banned if you're just spamming your brand in every relevant subreddit I know a lot of those don't mention it likewise just spamming yourself on other websites that may or may not be relevant to your niche and industry. So I think doing it in a systematic way actually looking for niche relevant sites that are ranked well in Google organic that are pulled in chat GBT for your money keywords and prompts relevant to your software folks evaluating options and similar and then manually reaching out to those folks and often takes a value exchange. So we could often recommend finding who who wrote the page or article if it is a website you want to get featured on and sending them a custom Loom video maybe on LinkedIn chat to the to the author offering them something like maybe an exchange on your website or maybe feature them on your podcast or some of them will actually be paytoplay and then don't overfocus on structured data like I say we have seen some structured data work well especially with the comparison tables early with a small one maybe top three results first and then later in the article the full 10 12 however many options you're evaluating if it's a competitor listical or bestex software listical those tables do work they do get pulled from so do be careful on that point at least from our experience of 45 plus active SAS clients and then next steps what to focus on apply SEO best practices create non-commodity content that's helpful reliable people first prioritize effective SEO strategies over the hacks and again one of the hacks I see I've seen a lot of is folks saying this is how I use Claude or Chat GBT to generate a thousand articles at the click of a button or at the prompt or with a special prompt and what they don't show is often they'll show the impressions in traffic what they don't show is the massive downhill slump in traffic when Google picks it up and marks it as spammy content or even endorses a penalty. So be careful with those hacks. And lastly, explore agent experiences. So keep informed about latest tech for AI agents that could interact with your site such as browser agents and protocols. So there's a quick snapshot and summary of the guide and my two cents against each point. And like I say at breaking B2B right now we work with around 45 plus active SAS clients most of which see an uptick in demos pipeline and revenue within 90 days of firing up works on SEO and AEO. And at a high level what this usually comes down to is one putting as much customer research as possible. So things like so really knowing your dream clients, their goals, their motivations, their problems, their frustrations, their jobs to be done, why they choose you, why they almost don't choose you, what your product differentiators are in the market, and much much more. And a great place to start is sales calls, customer success calls, support calls, and more. And with the tech we've got right now, there's no excuse because you can set up an MCP from a core record like Fathom, Firefly, Gong, and more. Pull that straight into your Claude, even using Claude skills. Likewise, you can link up to tools like HS with an MCP. So, it can really help with the next step. So, step two after doing your customer research is then working out your money keywords or your money prompts, exactly what your dream clients search for when they're looking for your software or software plus industry or comparing options like compared to one versus compared to two. Or maybe they're frustrated with the current vendor. So they're looking for alternatives like compared to alternatives or compared to pricing or compared to reviews. They're looking for specific integrations. They're looking for specific use cases or more was every way that our dream client could look for our software solution or compare options when they're in market right now. And those are those juicy longtail money keywords in prompts that you should be mapping out. Then one of the quickest wins you can get in SAS SEO and AO is if you've already got content on your website. If you've already got commercial pages that are maybe ranking page to organic search on Google or maybe they're not being cited from or pulled from an AI search tool. So mapping out those pages again you can use tools like hrefs or similar to work out what pages are lagging on page two of Google or not being pulled an AI search and those could be your quickest targets for seeing uptick in pipeline in 90 days. So doing a content refresh content update technical updates making sure that content really ranks resonates blows whatever competitors out the water right now with unique data stats research and maybe even driving some backlinks and baron mentions to those and those can rank as quick as 90 days top and start being pulled from an AI search to drive demos. Then it's all net new content. So basically building all the lines in the water for all those money keywords and money prompts. Building a dedicated page that hits that search intent of your dream clients of what's ranking or what's being pulled from an AI search or Google, whether that's an article page, a listical page, a review guide, a how-to guide, a comparison, a landing page, or whatever it might be. And crafting the best possible page you can that blows your competitor out of the water. Nailing the technical points we talked about earlier. Then doing off-page SEO. So building back links to those more competitive pages, earning brand mentions, and doing general good reputation off- page work, whether that's getting featured in review sites, being involved in relevant Reddit communities, and mentioning your brand where you're able to, and having a systematic strategy to keep that all ticking away and constantly kept on top of to really fuel your organic engine to be consistently recommended in AI search tools and top of Google organic search results to build the mind share with your dream clients and drive those allimportant inbound leads, demos, and signups from your dream buyers. And there you have it. I hope you found this breakdown useful. And if you want our team to take care of the full process for AI search and SEO for your SAS and drive pipeline and revenue quick as 90 days, then grab a call with us today over at breakingb2.com or hit the link in the description below. Or if you're not ready yet, you can grab my free 90 days to revenue SEO playbook and video. That's over at breakingb2b.com/newsletter and you can unlock it instantly. And with that, I shall catch you on the next one.