Expert: sam-dunning
Video URL: https://youtu.be/MBULPYGCRtg
Date collected: 2026-06-13
============================================================

There's one specific marketing strategy that's been driving demos for us every week at my company, Breaking B2B. And I'm yet to find a more powerful strategy for SAS companies, but it's not a single channel. It's a trio of channels working together. SEO and AI search, YouTube, and LinkedIn with both founder brand and paid ads. And if I just joined a B2B SAS company as a CMO or marketing leader, this is exactly what I triple down on. So, in this video, I'm going to walk you through each channel, explain exactly how to execute across all three. I'll explain why they all work so well together, so you can follow along and drive more pipeline and revenue for your SAS company. Let's get into it. So, here's how the deadly trio works. So, first up, we've got SEO and AO showing up at the top of Google's organic search results and being recommended in AI search when dream clients are needing your solution. The second is YouTube, building searchable videos that build trust at scale. And lastly, we've got LinkedIn, building a founder or exec brand, as well as amplifying those posts with paid ads. And here's why these three work so well together, especially for high ACV, high average contract value solutions. First off, if your SAS sells a solution that's 10K, 20K, 50K, 100K plus as an average contract value, no one wakes up and decides to invest that amount of cash into a piece of software. There's a long old process that goes on behind the scenes. They're not making impulse decisions off the bat. Your dream clients will go almost for a process of having a super expensive problem, maybe trying to fix it in house, maybe getting so frustrated that it doesn't work out, then researching options, evaluating options, and eventually deciding together with their team which solution, which brand, which company makes sense to move forwards with. And as well as this, there may well be a buying committee involved or several stakeholders that are going to be involved in that buying process. And these three channels allow you to hit those dream clients at different points in the buying process, building trust throughout. And unlike classic paid media that stops working the moment you switch off, these three channels all compound over time. The content that you're going to build out can work for you for months or even years to come. You're building assets for your company. You're not renting attention. And if you're thinking long term with your marketing strategy, this is going to be a solid bet. So let's dive into how you can run each channel successfully. So, first up, let's start with SEO and AAO because this is going to be building out the foundation. And the crux of it is to show up top of Google organic search and be recommended on AI search and LLMs when dream clients need your solution. Now, this could be when they're comparing options, when they directly need your software or category type now, when they're looking for a specific solution for an industry or vertical that they're within, when they may be frustrated with the incumbent vendor, or they're looking to solve a crisp and specific problem. SEO and AI search should always start from a demand collection perspective. What are my dream clients looking for? Not when they're information gathering, but when they're actually ready to speak to sales, grab a sign up, or grab a demo. And at this stage, you might be thinking, Sam, isn't SEO dead? I mean, didn't AI search and LLM optimization completely take over? Does anyone even use Google search anymore? Well, according to a report from Datas and Spark Toro, Google still gets 373 times more searches compared to Chat GBT, all the AI tools combined. Still make up around 2% of the search market. So SEO isn't dead. The game has simply changed. Now we want to show up in LLMs and AI search as well as classic Google organic results. But the good news is before you panic, we've got around 40 active B2B SAS clients at breaking B2B and solid bottomfunnel pipeline focused SEO carries through to getting visibility on AI search in LLM with a few tweaks here and there. So let's dive into what's working today. So a good way to think about SEO and AI search now, especially if like we were talking about earlier, you're selling solutions that are reasonably high ticket 10K, 20K, 50K, 100K plus annual contracts. often times now it's about getting in the consideration set. If there's multiple folks, multiple stakeholders involved in that process, it's not going to be a one and done. It's not an impulse buy. There's a bunch of things that are going to happen behind the scenes when it comes to them researching, evaluating, and eventually pulling the trigger and investing in a SAS like yours. So, a big part of the SEO and area search work is getting your company, your brand into the consideration set. When they have that sales intent, you've probably heard of the 955 rule. We want to go after those folks that are in that 5% that are in market right now for a solution like yours. And we really want to control that narrative whenever a target prospect is doing any kind of research or evaluation around our solution niche or category. And like many things with solid SAS marketing, it all starts with the buyer with your dream client and customer research. So in this instance for SEO and AO, what is my dream client looking for when they're in market? So, I recommend following a process called mapping out your money keywords. This is every way a target prospect could search for your solution when they're in buying mode. So, in SAS, some of the common money keywords around this could be bestex software, best x tools, bestex platforms. It could be competitor alternative, competitor pricing, competitor reviews. It could be best x software for industry or use case or ICP. There could also be more vertical focused, industry focused, or even integrationbased money keywords that your dream clients could look for when they're evaluating solutions like yours. And you can use a tool like Hrefs where you can actually map out the difficulty of these money keywords. The lower the better. But what you'll often find is that these bottomfunnel pipeline driving money keywords will often have relatively low search volume, especially if you're doing competitor alternative, competitor one versus competitor 2 versus you, or competitor pricing or those kind of competition based money keywords. Those ones will often have quite a low search volume but super high buying intent. Folks aren't searching this for fun. They're searching it because they're genuinely in market looking to move away from the incumbent or evaluating options like yours. they have a high chance to drive signups, sales calls or demos. And we've seen this type of competitor content rank as quick as days. I'm not talking months, years. I'm talking days from being published on SAS websites. And then when you look at more competitive money keywords, for example, best x software or best x platforms or best x software for a specific niche or category, those ones tend to have more search volume. They tend to be a little bit more difficult to rank. So, usually you'll have to build a best-in-class page, then perhaps earn some back links, maybe earn some brand mentions, and that's going to be usually a slower burner, and those can take several months to rank effectively on Google organic search and start being cited in AI search and LLMs. And as a quick example, if I do a Google search for warmly alternatives, I can see our client RB2 mentioned in the Google AI overviews and also the top organic result here. And this is exactly what I was talking about. The crux to this is working out what type of page ranks effectively for the money keyword. So in this case, warmly alternatives. They tend to be what we call a listicalbased article. So we evaluate the seven best warmly alternatives of 2026. And usually these are structured as an article-based listical. You normally have the author, the publish date, you have your H1 with your money keyword. You do a quick intro into what the topic's about, why you should consider alternatives, maybe leverage some intel from platforms like G2 or relevant review sites. So why folks look to switch from the competitor, in this case, why folks tend to get frustrated or switch from warmly. Then you generally do a table of the options. We position ourselves RB to be number one. But we don't just shout about how awesome and how great we are. We leverage real customer insights and feedback. Why folks are choosing us, features they care about, show a screenshot visuals of our product in action, maybe even a GIF of when our product clicks into play for RB2B. So RB2B is visitor identification software at the actual visitor level with the option to view company as well. So in this case, you might even show a gift of when the visitor hits your website and that pings through to Slack to your sales team and that awesome moment where they can see exactly who's been on your website, what money pages they've visited, and then they can outreach to them. So you have your features, you break down the pricing, you show the pros, where it's a great fit, cons where it's not such a good fit, and then a fair comparison of the other options on the market. And another example here on chat GPT, I've done it in a more conversational manner. So show me the best lead feeder alternatives for my SAS. And then we can see our client RB2 recommended here. And the nice thing here is what's being cited is our own list. So you'll see it's actually pulling from our own article. We're really controlling the narrative by building these money pages on our website. But once we know the money keywords, build best-in-class money pages that are actually likely to get cited, help control the narrative, help build brand, help get us into the consideration set and drive inbounds for our SAS. So in this case, a very similar process to the warmly one we just walked through the top 11 lead feeder alternatives. And then a similar thing here for our own context, but instead of going after competition or competitor based money keywords here, I've done a more general one. So for us, best SAS SEO agencies. You can see in the Google AI overview, we're suggested here, breaking B2B. And then also in the organic results, we're number one right now. And likewise, if I go to chat GBT, a more conversational search like, show me the best SEO agencies for my SAS. Again, we're recommended. We get a brand mentioned here. But the great thing is it's actually pulling from our own listical, our own listical article. So if I click into that, again, a similar process for these. So ours is here's the 11 best SAS SEO agencies to drive revenue for business. And you can see that money keywords in the H1. Got a quick summary. Again, those quick summaries and intros can be pulled into AI search tools. We do a table comparing everything. Why listen to us with some social proof, a nice client review, then jump into the top 11 agencies, position ourselves as number one, but share why folks choose us, how we're different, how we stand out in the marketplace, a nice screenshot, and then a video actually breaking down our process. YouTube video embed, where we're a good fit, we're not, and then a fair comparison again of all the other options that are available. A big piece of SEO and AI search is about working out one what your money keywords are. What dream clients search when they need your solution right now. Secondly, make it easy for yourself. See what type of content the LLM or Google organic is already using already ranking or being cited. Then simply look to really control that narrative by building out all these pages on your website, putting multiple lines in the water so you can rank on Google organic search, get pulled up in Google AI overviews, and start to get mentioned in AI searches on chat GBT and similar. So your brand can be recommended. But not only that, your actual content can be pulled. So you're building out all these money sass pages on your website, industry pages, vertical pages, blog articles, best of listicles, competitor listicles, maybe versus landing pages, pricing, review guides, and much more. Looking at what's already ranking on Google organic and chat GBT, and then completely blowing out the water, making your page more helpful, more useful, following Google's framework EAT experience expertise authority, and trust. And of course, making sure that you position your solution or your software as that painkiller with plenty of social proof, examples of your product in action and leveraging customer research and insight so you can really show in your copy and your content that you're resonating with your dream clients problems, goals, jobs to be done, and motivations. And then make it nice and easy with clear call to action so folks can easily take that next step, whether that's signing up for your product, grabbing a demo, or grabbing a sales call. So once you've controlled the narrative on your own site, a big thing is getting featured in niche relevant sites, getting that brand mention. And one fairly simple way to work out what to do here is look at the websites that keep getting cited for your money prompts, your money keywords. In this case for RB2B, they're already mentioned for best lead alternatives for my SAS. I can also see that lead feeder, I've got an article that's pulled from here. I can see lead info, I've got one that's evaluating alternatives. And I can see factors AI, I've got one as well. And a simple way to do this on chat GBT is you can click the sources tab. You can see all the articles in this case listicles that are pulled from and you can make a process to manually reach out to these folks. You can see who the author is of the content. Perhaps you reach out to them on LinkedIn or relevant channel. You do some kind of pattern interrupt outreach. So maybe you send them a customized Loom. Maybe you offer them a value exchange like maybe you can get them a placement on your article in return for them mentioning you as a top three placement within theirs with your brand mentioned and a nice backlink. or perhaps you offer them some kind of other value exchange, whether that is guesting on your podcast, some kind of interview, or something else that could be of both value to them as well as yourself. By the way, if you want help executing this entire strategy for your SAS company, book a call with me today over at breakingb2b.com. Our SAS clients typically see leads, signups, pipeline, and demos flowing within 90 days of working with us for their SEO and AO. Grab a call with me over at breaking B2B.com or hit the link in the description below. Right, back to the video. Now, it's time for the second channel of the Deadly Trio. It's YouTube. And to be crystal clear here, I'm not talking about throwing old company webinars up onto the company YouTube and hoping for the best. This is all about crafting searchable videos that share every aspect of your process, playbooks, and more, as well as giving away your strategies and the problems that you're solving for dream clients. But why bother? Well, it's the second largest search engine after Google. Watching someone on video builds another layer of trust that written content really struggles to match. Prospects are able to put a face to the name, to the brand, to the company. They can see you more and more. They understand your thinking and how you approach things. And just like SEO and AI search, it compounds over time. So videos can drive views and inbound leads not just now, but for months and years to come. So here's how you can make YouTube work for your SAS. You've got to go in with a YouTube first approach. That means solid packaging thumbnails titles scripting, and much more. A strong hook to get your dream clients enticed to watch the whole video. A clear story, good pacing, and obvious call to actions on the next step you want folks to take. And you need to stay painfully focused on your dream clients, not trying to get views from anyone and everyone. And just like SEO and AI search, we're not chasing vanity metrics. We don't want to go after tons and tons of traffic from anyone and everyone. We'd much rather a few hundred views from absolute perfect fit customers with that intent instead of hundreds of thousand views from folks that will never ever become a customer. And in order to make this content actually work, I recommend giving away so much value that your dream client could just watch this and then be able to know how to do it in house. Or of course, the perfect outcome is then they trust you so much, they trust your brand, that you're the brand of choice they're going to go to to deliver for them or use your software. And you've got to go into it with a mindset that either outcome is absolutely fine. There'll always be people that will try and go the cheaper route, try and do something internally, try and get it done with their own systems. And most of the time, they weren't going to be a great fit client for you anyway. You want to go after those folks that have that expensive problem you solve, are motivated to solve it, and are looking for trusted solution that can get the job done. And that's why if you go through my YouTube channel or podcast, you'll see us sharing all of our playbooks, strategies, case studies, walkthroughs, experiments across SEO and AAO for B2B SAS. I don't hold anything back. And that's a big piece of the puzzle for making it work. And here's a quick bonus. Your YouTube videos can actually help your SEO program, too. So, we'll often embed relevant YouTube videos onto articles, list of cool pages, landing pages, and much more. Not only do they seem to help your organic results, but they can also get pulled up in Google's video section. And sometimes you get a little thumbnail next to your Google organic search result. So, it can improve your click-through rates. It can improve engagement time. So, when folks land on these pages or articles, they might click through your video, watch several minutes or watch the whole thing, and then build that extra layer of trust or maybe even then click through to your YouTube channel, consume way more content, so then they'll be way more likely to look at and evaluate your SAS. Plus, YouTube's often picked up in AI search results and LLMs, too. And the last part of the deadly trio, it's LinkedIn organic founder brand or exec brand and paid. So, LinkedIn has two parts to it. Organic posting from your founder or execs on your team onto LinkedIn, as well as paid amplification of those posts, either retargeting website visitor ICPs, as well as going after cold ICP, cold ideal client profile lists. This channel is going to work best if you've got a thought leader on your team, be it your founder, an exec, yourself, that's ideally already got a network full of dream clients or idol client profiles, got several thousand connections or similar. And if not, of course, you can build that up over time. LinkedIn allows you to connect to 100 or so folks each and every week. So, with a tool like Sales Navigator, you can simply search for folks that fit that dream client profile and connect with them over time, building up your network. But the main goal here from organic posting is to become a trusted voice for your ICP in your niche. So when your target prospects have the problem you solve or need your solution or folks are asking about your solution or looking for recommendations, your brand, your SAS company is the one that instantly comes to mind that gets recommended or gets considered or gets chosen. So this is usually posting each day organically to LinkedIn. It could be industry tips. It could be breakdowns. It could be revealing your strategies. It could be memes around your industry. It could be industry news. It could be video skits. It could be podcast clips or so much more. I'm a big fan of edutainment. So, getting attention from ICP first, then linking it back to our solution. So, I tend to do a bunch of memes, videos, skits, as well as detailed breakdowns about some of the clients and companies that we work with, literally leaking the full playbook and strategy, so folks could even copy themselves or trust us so much they come to our brand. And this is all about staying top of mind with your ICPS when they're not in market. So, like I say, when they have that problem to solve, when they're evaluating vendors, when someone else needs a recommendation, anything along those lines, you and your brand are the one that straight away comes to mind, and they either go to you to grab a demo, sign up to your software, or recommend you to appear. And then once you, an exec on your team or your founder, has got that organic playbook running. They're posting consistently. They're building their network. They're also, I should add, engaging with other folks in your niche, whether that is dream clients, maybe similar companies, maybe other folks that your ICPs follow and get trusted info from. And once you've got that organic playbook rolling, that's when you want to look to amplify these posts with paid. This is all about taking some of your top organic posts. So, it could be social proof posts, case studies, reviews, or similar. It could be breakdowns. It could be strategies. It could be edertainment ones like memes or skits or videos. And as well as your own posts, it could also be clients or partners that have posted about you and your company and you can sponsor those too. And then you can run them as thought leader ads to two audiences. So firstly, you can retarget your own website visitors, the folks that have already shown interest in your offer. And secondly, you can serve these to a cold list of your ICPs. I recommend making it as tight as possible for those dream clients and accounts you want to break into. And this playbook is working super well for us right now at breaking B2B. And I know a bunch of other SAS marketing leaders running a very similar playbook, too. Right now, we spend around 2 to 3K USD per month on the ads. And the main thing here is that a lot of folks in the B2B space, as long as you know your dream clients are hanging out on LinkedIn, it's going to make sense. So, it's been really powerful for us to stay top of mind with folks in the pipeline, retarget those website visitors, stay top of mind, and build trust. And thirdly, to get the attention of those net new cold prospects over time, building trust and brand equity for our company. And if we take a look at some of our own recent booked calls, we can see folks mentioning these channels. And most of the time, folks that come inbound to us at Breaking B2B will mention LinkedIn as part of that journey. And let's wrap up by talking about how the deadly trio works together. So now you understand how each channel works individually, but the real magic happens when they all work together in sync. So here's exactly how the flywheel starts spinning. So someone might search for a crisp and expensive problem you solve. Maybe they're looking directly for the solution itself or maybe evaluating vendors, be it on Google, chat GBT or an AI tool. Your page or content might show up. Your brand might be recommended. Maybe they flick through to one of your site pages. Maybe they then watch a YouTube video. They might then leave your website without converting, but perhaps they flag up your brand to an exec member in Slack or the rest of their team mention it at the next company meeting. They've now been added to your retargeting pool. So over the next few weeks, they're going to be seeing your LinkedIn thought leadership ads. Then they might start following you or your exec or your founder and then consistently see the organic post as well as the sponsored thought leader ads. Perhaps they then head to YouTube and then search for a niche related topic, see one of your videos top, watch the whole thing, and then really believe that your brand is the one that they should trust to solve their problem. And then maybe for final piece of mind after this whole process, they've maybe had a few chats with their exact team. They then do another comparison on Google or Chat GBT of you versus another brand versus the final brand they had on their selection list. They're then clear on your differentiators. They've watched a bunch of your videos. They've seen your founder or execs posting organic on LinkedIn and strongly believe that your offer is the right fit for them. You're the obvious choice, so they sign up to your software, grab a demo, or book a call with sales. And as I say, this deadly trio is especially powerful for high ACV offers. Deals with multiple stakeholders do not close after one touch. You need to keep showing up in the places that your dream clients are getting trusted information from. All throughout the process, from research to consideration to evaluation and beyond. And all three channels really complement each other. SEO and AI search to get you in that consideration set and also at the end capture demand. YouTube to build that extra layer of trust that's unrivaled with video. And LinkedIn to constantly keep you top of mind. And if you've been on LinkedIn for a while, just like I have, you've probably seen the organic reach keeps tanking. The organic reach keeps dropping over time. And that's why this deadly trio becomes more and more important for SAS companies. You're building own media assets that you can actually control. You're not at the mercy of an algorithm. and you're really building out a content engine and flywheel that's going to compound over time. So, if you want help building the foundational layer of this deadly trio for your SEO and AI search, grab a call with me over at breakingb.com or hit the link in the description below and we can chat through and see if we're a good fit. Most SAS companies we work with see pipeline flowing as quick as 90 days. Or if you're not quite ready, why not grab my 90 days torevenue SEO playbook and video course. Head over to breakingb2b.com and hit that newsletter tab or check out the breaking B2B podcast for weekly episodes to grow your SAS.