Expert: sam-oh
Video URL: https://youtu.be/3d1osGr0hkc
Date collected: 2026-06-13
============================================================

I've worked in digital marketing for years, and every case study claims that YouTube ads are the bomb, delivering unreal results, but everyone I know skips them. So, are YouTube ads as powerful as marketers claim? Or is someone lying? I need to find out because we have our annual conference, HFS Evolve, coming up, and it's my job to make sure that everyone knows about it. So, to find out, I created a YouTube ad, showed it to 25,000 strangers, and told them to meet me in the heart of Boston to claim $100. No strings attached. So, how do you build an ad that people don't skip? Let me break down the formula for you. Starting with the hook, YouTube ads are skippable after 5 seconds. So, that's all you have to convince someone to keep watching. The way I did that was by using the pick formula. If you're in Boston, personalization. I want to give you a $100 Amazon gift card. Irresistible offer. So, listen carefully to every word I say. Call to action. The hook's job is to just get someone's attention. The next part is what instills trust in the viewer. I call it the alibi. This is the part of the ad that removes doubt and builds trust, especially when your offer sounds too good to be true. That's why we told them why we're giving away $100, hoping to instill legitimacy and trust. I'm running an experiment to see if people actually pay attention to YouTube ads or just skip them. I mean, who doesn't wonder that? And that takes us to the final and most important part of the ad, the ask. This is your final call to action. It's where you tell viewers exactly what to do to get your irresistible offer. And ours, it was a tall order, which made me wonder how many people are even going to show up. So, here's the deal. Remember the secret word, meta. Then come and find me at the Parkman Band stand in Boston Common on Thursday, August 28th. I'll be there from 12:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. Be the first person to say the secret word to me, and you'll walk away with a $100 Amazon gift card. We set up 10 of these ads, each with unique secret codes to prevent people from gaming the system, just in case there were mobs of people waiting for us. Our ad was complete, and the results were promising. Our ad performed 80% better than the average YouTube ad with 58% of people watching the entire video. But this only proves one thing. We're good at holding attention. The real test, the one that actually matters, is how many of these 25,000 viewers will actually show up. And what happened next legit shocked me. I'm actually kind of nervous. There's mom and a daughter there. And then there's somebody else wearing a mask. Now they're starting to look at me. I don't know what's going on. Guy's wearing like a gas mask. [Music] I was like 100% sure that there was going to be people here waiting for me. All right. Well, we got to record for 2 hours. Can't believe no one showed. What? Tell someone ambush. Camera ambush? Yeah. Come on. I know. I know. I know the thing. The code was mana. That's yours. Thanks for coming. I honestly did not expect to walk away with this, so thanks. Did you Did you see the see our channel or did you just see the ad and then you were like, I only saw the the ad. Yeah, I I never click on ads ever. I'm I'm pleasantly surprised. Are you hiring by chance? Are we hiring? Yeah, we are. Yeah, if you go to our site, hfs.com, you'll see it there. All right, thanks. So, you're the guys for the gift card giveaway? Yes. [Music] Okay. Yeah, you got it, man. So, when you saw the ad, what were you thinking? Were you thinking like this is a scam? Honestly, I was on the verge of skipping it, but uh I decided to check it out. That's cool. My heart's pounding. Two down and we got some more to go. So, Meta, backlink, those ones are gone. I think Meta and Backlink were the two secret codes that had the most views on it. Like, it's cool that people came, but the results aren't great. 4,000 people see an ad or 1,500 people see it to the end. Only one person shows up. That's kind of shocking. And our second winner, off that was cool. Hopes were high and I was coming to the conclusion that YouTube ads really are the perfect way to get people to our conference. But as 10 minutes stretched to 20, then to an hour, reality began to sink in. No one's coming. Jeez. 25,000 views and two people show up. Let me know in the comments. Would you actually show up for a $100 gift card? Oh, I think they're coming. Someone's here. Someone's here. Oh, I think they're just taking a photo. I was certain that they were coming. False alarm. At that point, I figured the experiment was over. Turns out it was just getting started. The commercial. Yo, what's up, man? Word. What's up, man? What's your What's the What's the word? Index. Index. All right, man. Yeah. All right. I seen the commercial late night. I only seen it once and I seen you on there. I'm like, I know exactly where that's at bro. Well, what made you actually come? You didn't think like it was a scam or anything like that? I don't know. You had a you had an honest face, bro, when you were talking and you were like 12 to2. I'm like, that seems reasonable. I'm like, check it out. I mean, I live in the city anyway. Yeah. Yeah. It's not like, you know, meet me at 2 in the morning and I'll give you Exactly. I was expecting a whole line of people to be here, bro. Shockingly, not that many people showed up considering. That's crazy. Do you remember why we're doing it? No, I have no idea. Yeah. So, it's just to see if YouTube ads work or if people are just skipping them. Word. Okay. Cuz when I heard the local stuff, usually I'll skip to them, but if it's if it's something that's worth it, then you know what I mean? If it's local, Yeah. you listen. All right. Index. Yeah. Congrats, Derek. All right. So, we've given away three three out of 10. So, now we're just waiting on on people to show up. And it didn't take long until the next person did. Hey, what's what's the code? Oh, search engines. Search engine. All right, we got another one. I have to go somewhere. That's four. We've given out four Amazon gift cards. Interestingly, it's been four different people that came in from four different videos. So, no one has actually come in for duplicate codes. [Music] Hold on. Excuse me. Yeah. Are you the YouTube people? Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. Meta. Oh, somebody already came for that. I came for that. Yeah. Yeah. You want But we got we got a a Starbucks gift card for you so you can grab a drink. So, do you usually just ignore ads when you see them or like just skip it? Yeah. So, what what made you actually like watch through the ad cuz you clearly watched till the end? I mean, I was like, it's close by. This place is wide area, so like I wouldn't think it's anything bad or anything like that. So, like no safety issues in the middle of the day. That's one more. That's the second one on Meta. Gave him a couple Starbucks gift cards so he can grab a drink. Yeah, I feel bad. But is the rules. It is now 2:00. It's officially time to end our little experiment. Now, while this wasn't exactly a rigorous study, only five out of the 25,000 people who saw our ad actually showed up. That's a 0.02% conversion rate. But here's the part that confuses me most. Brands are still spending billions of dollars on YouTube ads every quarter when most of us skip them and just wish they weren't even there. They're disruptive by design and over time we've become blind to them. So the alternative organic creator sponsorships. Imagine giving that same budget directly to creators. Not only is it more costeffective, it builds genuine relationships with people who have access to your target audience. It feels more human and will actually move your brand forward. So, I guess I'll need to look elsewhere to figure out how to get people excited about HR Evolve because YouTube ads clearly aren't it. What do you think? If you want to see a smart way to do organic creator sponsorships, check out our breakdown of how Electric partnered with YouTuber Ryan Treyan.