Expert: chris-savage
Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N2WHBKFl5tk
Date collected: 2026-06-13
============================================================

Video is evolving really
quickly right now. It's no longer just about
making something good. It's about how you make
it, where it shows up, and how you know if
it's actually working. So instead of guessing, we
went straight to the source. We surveyed nearly video
professionals for our twenty twenty six
State of Video Report. And today, we're walking through
what we found with some of Wistia's finest number crunchers
and content producers, Sam Balter and Meg Delisandro. We're breaking down why
more teams are investing in distribution, how AI is
changing who makes video, and how fast it gets made,
and why engagement, not views, is becoming the new
measure of success. If you're new here, this
is Talking Too Loud. It's a show for people
building brands, products, and content that
actually stand out, where we try to unpack what's
really working right now and what is just noise. Welcome, Sam. Welcome,
Meg. Good to see you too. Great to be here.
Thanks for having me. Longtime listener.
Happy to be here. Oh, you shouldn't have. So we're here to talk about video, an episode about video. We just did our annual
state of video live event. We released our annual report. There is a ton changing
with video right now. A ton. And it it is getting harder
to keep up with what is changing. So I know everyone
wants to know, like, what are we seeing in this data? Okay. I'm just jumping right in. I'm just going back. Gonna jump right in. So So I think, like, there's
things that are, like, year over year
trends we always see. More plays on videos,
more video creation, more demand from other people. I think one of the things that we
those are pretty common trends. I think one of the biggest
things that I'd say is a big kinda leap from last year
is basically just how much in house video
teams are growing. Yeah. Not and not just
people are growing, hiring video producers, but
when we ask people like, who's responsible for making
videos at your company? People who are not
video producers, that number jumped the
largest about this year. So we're seeing that the
average marketer is taking on a lot more responsibility
in video production, and more companies are hiring,
like, expert video talent. How much did that number change? So when we asked,
it went from, like, thirty six percent to
fifty six percent sign. So that's, like, a pretty sizable jump
for just that group that's that's that is only for the group that is
not a dedicated video producer. So, like, that's a huge
year over year jump for us. And I know, like, people
can watch the state of video full, event back, right,
if they want more details. But can you talk about
a little bit, like, why we believe this is? Like, why are more people doing
this? How are they doing this? I mean, this
tremendously huge jump. Yeah. I'd say for the like, in terms of why people
are sort of doing this, one of the big trends
is obviously AI. Like, AI is what is accelerating
a trend that was already happening before. And I think it's a huge jump in basically
your capabilities of doing things. An average person can now edit
a video like you edit a Google Doc. Your average person could
get backgrounds or visuals or music just by typing things in. So somebody with no video
skills whatsoever is now pretty capable
of doing some, like, lower level production work that
they just weren't able to do before. So one, you have, like, a
capability increase, and two, you look at
LinkedIn, more video. You look at, any kind
of platform, more video. People are putting more videos
on their websites as well. So it's like you have
both sides of it, an increase in capability so
you could produce more and an increase in demand. This this stat
really surprised me. And, Meg, I I kinda wanna
hear your take on this. But like you have the report
that says, like, in house teams are growing
right up alongside Disney's massive layoffs. Right? And basically saying, forget about
the people who can do the thing. Let's make it all robots. Yeah. I think there's actually a
really good segment in State of the Bay where we talk about
the need for an in house team. And that even though AI is
coming in and helping teams do more, there when we look at
how AI is actually trending, it's actually sort of leveling out
compared to the last few years. It's kind of becoming
more mainstream. And so even though people wanna
take the easy fix and just say, like, throw AI at it, you still really need that
in house team to develop that taste, that strategy. And I feel like we have a
really good video you can send to your boss, PSA
commercial, you might say, that says exactly why you need that
in house team to make those decisions. Yeah. I think it's very much seems
to me like this concept that's been thrown around of, like, Jevan's paradox of the demand
for the when these things get really easy, like, the demand for them actually goes
up way more than you would expect. So in this case, like, you know, you have someone on your
team who their their title, their role, their experience
was never to make videos. Now what we're seeing
is that they are, but then they're
proving the value. And then suddenly it's
like, well, actually, now that we're in value, we want these really
to be on brand. We need them to
lots more places. We're gonna still use AI to
help us do this, but, like, maybe we need dedicated people thinking
about this and working on this. And that is just it's like
this is one of those, like, really weird things that can
happen in a moment like this. And I I think what surprised me
was that the level of shift in one Like like, that is a
tremendous shift in one year stuff. And did Disney blow
it? I just wanna know. Well, I think that that's like, I I've I'm not sure, like, the dynamics except
that I know that, like, it's way harder to get
people to theaters today. Right? And, like, there Disney is
competing not just with, like, a small number of movie studios. Like, they're
competing with Netflix. They're competing with YouTube.
They're competing with TikTok. And so they're under
threat in a different way. I I think if they get rid of
all these people who have this amazing taste and, like, their careers have been
making creative decisions, that's probably not
great for them long term. But those people are gonna end
up they might end up in really surprising places. That's where that's what might be
very interesting here is, like, you have people who come from
media directly into these other worlds, where it's like, we're all trying to make
our stuff better, like, we have the ability to do
that with AI in a way that we couldn't possibly do before. Do you need to
hire some tastemakers right there? I think, like, it does
sort of remind me of, like, when I worked at HubSpot, I feel like we've hired a lot
of people who are former media journalists and stuff like that. And a lot of that was because
newspapers were losing an enormous amount of money. Yeah. So a lot of those really,
really talented producers, writers, things like that
flooded from journalism and text into the world of tech. And I think, like, you'll probably see something
similar with Disney people. Like, there'll be a lot of
people who will move over into, like, tech world because
they'll have a set of video skills, producing skills that
just weren't that weren't really needed necessarily in
tech before and are just gonna be a lot more valuable now
because it's like video is just so much more core
for businesses. Alright. So we've talked a
lot about, like, this shift with having many more
people in house making videos. What are some of the other big shifts
that we've seen in this year's report? I think another big shift
that we're seeing is just how success is quantified. I feel like years ago
is all about views. Views was everything. You could get a video that had
a million views or a thousand views, whatever, and it would
have little to no comments, and that was still seen
as a really big success. Where now I feel like people
are really locked in on that social engagement or the
actual comments, the likes, the reactions, the
shares, things like that. And you can actually have a
video that gets, you know, a handful of really
thoughtful comments, and that'll actually be so much
more successful than a video that has a bunch of views and
a bunch of bot comments that just say, like, fire emoji
because, like, what is that? You know? So I think they had a stat in
the report where, actually, social engagement has jumped
to the top of the list for in terms of what people are
quantifying as success for video. And so that was something that
really stood out to me because I feel like I definitely
feel really guilty of being discouraged when I see a video
doesn't get a lot of views. Even if I'm getting a lot of
really thoughtful comments, I'm having great discussions, I'm even getting
more connections. It's easy to get really
bogged down and, oh, this didn't get x
amount of views. And especially when you're
reporting up to someone, you're trying to be
like, this thing worked. I promise. Like, look. But it's actually interesting to
see that shift in people's perspective of what is success. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like
that's also extending out. Like, this is gonna have a
larger effect for how LLMs are starting to pick up things. Like, we know, like, a
couple things have happened. We know this. One, LinkedIn this year has moved
up to the number one video channel for b to b marketers. It was previously YouTube. Now it is LinkedIn. They say that's their best
channel for distributing video. Which is wild, by the way. Which is wild. That's a huge wild. Crazy shift. Yeah. Because it's like
just a few years ago, it's like you're still mostly
thinking about, like, that as, like, online resume. Now we're basically, okay. We're
in a lot more video. We're sharing
thought leadership. But you combine that with, like, LLMs really frequently citing
LinkedIn as a top source. You, like, put those two pieces
together and you realize, like, okay. Great. Having a video that might not
get the most of views but is showing your expertise and
driving large comments, if you wanna get lots of
comments, watch engagement, video will likely beat text. If you wanna have
something that's, like, really narrowed it
on a specific topic, video is gonna be a
great way to do that. And so I just feel
like with that, like, focus on engagement, you're just seeing this larger
shift where it's gonna be like, I really wanna get
engagement around narrow topics that I am
actually an expert on. Whereas, like, instead of trying to pop
off on whatever is the trending topic of the day, like, I think a lot of people can
kind of lower their feelings of, like, needing to do
that of, like, oh my god. There's a trend. I need
to do this trend as well. I need to comment in it. It's like you can actually
just stay in your lane, build your expertise,
and then, like, as LLMs are picking that up, that'll be really
valuable to you. Are you guys seeing that,
like, in your own feeds? Are you seeing, like, way
more video in LinkedIn? I feel like I'm seeing that
way more even than, like, at the beginning of the year. This was, it's something
it popped up during, like, the state of video live
chat where we were, like, LinkedIn is number one,
and one person was, like, I don't see any
videos on LinkedIn. And then everybody else
was like, I want your out. Like, how do you not see videos? What do you mean
you don't see like, everyone on there was
like, we all see videos. So I think for the at
least for me, it is, like, forty percent more
videos at least. I think I've also seen
that types of videos on LinkedIn drastically changed
in the last year. I think a year ago, you were seeing the same types
of podcast clips with the same types of captions,
and it was, like, kinda like Sam was just saying, copying that formula that
worked and just doing it again and again and just trying
to flood the feed with that. And I think everyone got a
little bit burnt out on that. I know I sure did. And so I feel like I'm
seeing a lot less of that, and I'm starting to see
more creative uses of video. I love seeing liquid death
in my LinkedIn feed because everything they make is
so delightfully unhinged. And I just hope that more
people start creating more exciting things on LinkedIn. The other thing I would say is
that speaking back to our point on everyone's making video. Now it's not just video teams
making video on LinkedIn or CEOs or founders or
whoever, podcast people, it's actually you'll see, like, an engineer put a product demo of
them walking through something. God bless. Actually sit through it
because I'm like, oh, that's actually really
interesting to hear from the person who made the thing, what they found most interesting
or how they built it. And I think that's gonna be
interesting to see how more of that everyone making video thing
starts integrating into the feed. So I'm excited for it. Yeah. I think that's when
we zoom out on, like, where AI is adding
the most productivity, it's actually on the
software engineering side. And so if you're following
Wistia, we're shipping, like, at an utterly insane pace, And that creates this other
challenge that everyone's going to have, which we've
been talking about, which is how do you
get the attention? How do you tell people
about the stuff? And, one of the things that I
think it seems like it's coalescing at this that might be the
answer is actually, no, you're gonna have more people
talking who are the people who are making the things, actually
making the videos themselves, making them for their
very specific niche, which before the algorithm and
stuff wouldn't help wouldn't couldn't get just that super
specific thing to the right person. Now it actually is going to. And so we're seeing a little
bit of the solution start to show up, which is like, yeah, this democratization of of
video production is gonna be critical for how people get the
messages out there about the stuff that they're building
and what they're doing, the behind the scenes of why
it works the way that it does. I also think it's just
interesting looking at videos like a very much in the
apex medium of, like, you could take video
and turn it into audio. You could take video
and put it into clips. You can take it, and, you know, something long that you don't
think most people are gonna watch, like, pull it down
and pull the insights, write a newsletter. Like, if you have that
system, that engine built, it is much easier to match the
content you're making to all the different places where
people might consume it. But if you're starting the other
direction, it's, I think, harder. Yeah. I feel like
that is just for us. Our own workflow is just a
lot faster for certain things. Like, our even something like we had our state of
video live yesterday. Within a number of hours, we had a recap blog post done. And I think, like,
that shift is just how quickly we were able to take
something that's video and turn it into something else is huge. And just to, like, paint this
perspective, if there's, like, people who are, not actually
aware of how this process works, it's usually the person
who is doing the webinar is not always the person who's
writing the blog post. So the person who's writing the
blog post actually has to watch the webinar, which isn't always the
case at a lot of companies. Like they are just like, Oh
yeah, I'll catch it later. So it's like the
webinar will happen. The blogger will watch the
webinar maybe like two or three hours afterwards, take a
variety of notes about it, write a recap blog post at
it, edit that blog post, and maybe get it out within
like forty eight hours. Like, I'd say that's a pretty
common trend for people. Now it's like the webinar, I took prerecorded things.
I ran it through remix. I got a draft blog post. The live event happened, q and
a added into it, edited once. It's, like, twelve
hours, you know, or less than twelve hours. Whole thing is live. And so, like, that shift
is just so much faster. And with video, it's like you weren't
really able to bridge that gap as quickly. And I think that's just one
thing you're seeing of, like, Savage, to your point of things
breaking into into pieces. It's just way quicker to
do it than it used to be. I feel like I'm of two mindsets
when it comes to repurposing because obviously, like, I
see the value in being able to turn a long form video
into all these other pieces of content, like whether
they're shorter videos or newsletters, or
whatever have you. But then I feel like there's a
case to be made that like every platform is a different sport, and you kind of need to sort of fine tune the content
to the platform that you are posting on. So I guess, like, what what
do you think as people are repurposing, like, what are
some guardrails that they should be thinking about? Is it, like, knowing what kind of
content you're gonna get out of it from the jump and like
that's enough or I'll let Meg take
that one first. Having having written our video repurposing cookbook,
now at at Wistia, I am very passionate about
making and repurposing things with a purpose. I think it's so purpose. I like it. You know? I think it's so easy to again,
I think the maybe a year ago, it was just, alright. We have a podcast. We're gonna get as many
short clips as humanly possible and slap some captions on it. So we have months
and years of content. But if you're not thinking
about what the context of that clip is broken out
from the full piece, people are just gonna see that
in their feed and just be like, what is going on? What is this? And so you might be getting
more mileage out of something, but you're literally going
nowhere because people aren't sitting there with
you in that context, and you're not thinking about
the context in which they're seeing it, especially
between different platforms. Like, I'm in a totally different
headspace when I'm on TikTok than when I'm on LinkedIn. And I I personally hate
having my time wasted, and so I hate when
I watch something, and it feels like a
giant waste of time. Like, I could watch
ten million cat videos. That would be a way better use
of my time than half the stuff I see on LinkedIn. And so I I'm just really
passionate about thinking about repurposing from the jump so
that way you're not wasting anyone's time,
including your own. Because, again, there's no point in
making a bunch of clips if they're not gonna get washed and not
send people anywhere. So that's kinda my my soapbox,
which I'll step down from now. I like it. You sure do. What's, what's something like
going through the report? There's so much data in there. We've talked about a few
of the surprising insights. Are there any other things that
really surprise you from this you wanna make sure
that people don't miss? For me, it's like I
webinars are so big for us, and it's like something
I'm so interested in. And I think there's a couple
things that stick out. One is just like people are not
appreciating just how engaged a webinar audience is. Like, even at a benchmark
level, we have stats of, like, the engagement rate for
something of a thirty, of, like, a thirty minute webinar. It's gonna be, like,
seventy percent. So, like, people
who are there Yeah. It's like if you put
any long form video, no long form video
will get that level. Like, if you put it on
YouTube, it is like, if you can get over
fifty, incredible. You are ten out like, Webinars are just regularly
doing, like, seventy, eighty percent in terms of,
like, their engagement rate. Wistia tracks another to let
metric below that, which is, like, focused attendee rate. So that's, are you actually clicked into
the window not doing something else? That's only like a
little bit below, that's like sixty
percent on average. And so like, you just
do not get a more engaged audience than
you do on a webinar. And I think like, if you just look at a webinar
as a video that is playing, that people are watching,
like it's kind of unmatched in terms of that level
of engagement. And so, like, that to me is just
one of the most surprising things. The other thing
we track is, like, just with winning the world
of webinars is how I'm very obsessed as our content person
with the shelf life of stuff. And, generally, webinars very
much feel like when they're over, they're over. We saw that thirty percent
of the webinars hosted are still getting views, like,
three months afterwards. You go look at webinars, like,
you go down nine months later, kinda drops to about,
like, ten percent, little less than ten percent. Wistia, we're, like, solidly
have webinars that are getting views, like, over
twelve months later. And so there's just so much
room with webinars to turn them into these assets that
just keep getting views. And I think it's crazy to
imagine this format where you have super high engagement
the moment it happens and long shelf life, And it's
relatively low cost to produce. And so, like, that combination
to me was just like, I know people know it, but I
think seeing the numbers, like, really kind of drilled and
brought that point home. Yeah. I think we should I think we
should go deeper here in a like, excuse me for getting
too meta, I think, but, like, I think I'm just gonna I'm
gonna go all the way there, which is like Always. Which is I think, like, if you have not seen
what we're doing like, we call them a webinar because
that's the colloquialism. Right? Like, they're
so what we call them. Like, if you were to go and
look at the state of video live, it doesn't
feel like a webinar. To me, it feels like a show. And we've made this
conscious choice of, like, we're gonna make the
production of the live event so remarkably great that, like, not only are we're we're to take
advantage of that attention. Right? Like, we know that
already the attention is high. So we want you to come
in and feel like, wow, I'm seeing something
really special. Just talk about what goes into
this, I guess, what I'm saying. Like, what goes into
these events for us now? So let's see. A couple of years ago, we moved to totally or
prerecorded first thirty minutes, and then the last
thirty minutes is live q and a. So it's a combination of a
prerecorded show and a live q and a. The prerecorded thing is based
on for our state of video live, we do it like a news thing. So we have a variety
of different segments. We play we have all people from
the office come in and, like, play different characters
and things like that. And so, basically, you end
up with this twenty five, thirty minute totally
wrapped pre like, show, and then we kick it over live. And the thing is we invest so
much time in this and, like, Chris Lavigne was a huge, like, proponent of this direction
because he's like, if we can make a thirty minute
live show, there's no dead air. Every moment is
useful. Everything is engaging. There's not these, like, drop
offs where people feel like, oh, this isn't relevant to me. It's so fast and
entertaining and useful. And it also, like, Meg could
talk a lot more about this, but, like, as we're
not giving the webinar, as I'm not talking
while it's happening, we're way more engaged in chat. We're more involved with, like,
giving relevant resources, and we're able to do, like, a lot more to make the
live experience better. But, I mean, maybe, Meg, you
could talk a bit about, like, the lie our run of show
and just how, like, detailed that becomes. Yeah. So besides just planning ahead
and making sure all those segments can be repurposed later
on as we can, again, get more juice for the
squeeze, we always create what's called, like, a run of show document,
which basically says, at this point in the show,
we're gonna drop this link. And at this point in the show,
we're gonna run this poll. Or at this point of the show, we're gonna have
these resources ready, or we're gonna think
ahead and say, hey. Like, if this happens,
like, what are we gonna say? If someone asks, is
this prerecorded? What what are we gonna say? And it just makes it so you
can actually be very present in the moment, and so you're not
just sitting there sweating, just hoping that things go well. And it also makes it so that
when Sam and Taylor come into the live q and a, they're
fresh, they're ready, They actually have the
bandwidth and, like, mind space to see the chat and
see what questions are coming up as they're coming in live. So they can actually kind
of start prepping their answers even before they're sitting
in the live q and a, which just again makes that
content just so much more valuable in the moment. Yeah. So I guess my question
is knowing all this about webinars, and the
fact that they are so engaging, especially
when they're like a show, what what should video teams
be thinking about, like, going forward with
regard to webinars? Is it is it, like,
make this, like, really high end production? Is it, like, start off with
maybe trying one segment? I shouldn't be feeding
you any answers. I am leading the witness. Yeah. Say it again. What should video teams be thinking
about with regard to webinars? I think for most companies,
and I could be wrong, video teams aren't really
working on webinars. Like, a lot of video teams are
not part of the webinar process. The webinar process usually
sits with somebody within demand gen or in another area. They're not tied to the
video team who's making, educational content
or they're making ads. Like, that is a lot of the time
what your video team is doing and your webinar person is a
totally separate person or it's just one really
overworked marketer. Right? But, like, I think what the easy thing
for video teams to do is to start bringing in some prerecorded
content into live. Like, we on our town
hall, it was a mix. There was live. There was
prerecorded. There was live. There was prerecorded, and
it oscillated between those. And I think like a lot of
video teams just need to get involved in the process of like creating
videos that can be played or used during the webinar. And I think one of the
things that's really nice about that is once you get a
video person in, they will likely up level the
webinar just because they can't not up level the webinar. They can't not think about how
you're sitting in that room. They can't not adjust your
lighting to make you look better. They can't not fix your audio. Like if you bring like just the
main thing video teams need to do is actually just get involved
in the webinar process at all. And then once they're
involved a little bit, it is going to steadily
up level that content. And I think, like, when you think about the
webinar person and repurposing, that webinar person is may
not be responsible for ads, for social content,
for things like that. And so, like, anything you can do to
thread webinars more throughout the rest of your marketing org, the
better off you're going to be. And everybody's gonna just
generally benefit from that. Well said, sir. Well said. Yeah. I think the other thing that I
think a lot about is that the hardest part about a webinar
is getting people in the room, and one of the first things
people see about your webinar is the title. And so even though it's not
necessarily with the video team itself, I think having, like, that content minded person who
might be writing ad copy or might be thinking through the
blog post that comes after, really thinking about does this
title just sound like a sales pitch? Because who realistically wants to sit
through a half an hour sales pitch? Like, I know I don't. So I think putting that value
upfront and making sure that it's so clear why they're
spending time with you and why that live time would be valuable
with them is really important. I think a lot of teams
drop the ball there, and I definitely feel guilty of wanting to lean more
towards the the sales pitch because I think as marketers,
we're we're always selling. We're always
thinking of, alright. This webinar is supposed to
get x amount of dollars or this product or that product. But really putting yourself in
the viewer's shoes is something that I think video teams
are really, really good at. And so I think that's just
another benefit of bringing in video folks into
the webinar process. Yeah. I think a lot of the
prerecorded stuff, like, that's where they
can be like, okay. We need to make something
about our product. It needs to be, like,
actually entertaining, and but we know we're
gonna have attention. So let's let's, like, take those constraints
and go make something. Because that that's what I
keep thinking about is, like, it's getting harder to
differentiate yourselves. Like, SEO doesn't work
the way that it used to. Like, it's it's
harder to get traffic. It's harder to get attention. So if you have places where
you can actually get it, how do you make
the most out of it? And I think that's
where it's like, look. Look at your look at the stuff
around you and see if there's opportunities to, like it could be as simple
as the right pre rolls in before it's going or even at the
end of the event, I think. Like, that stuff actually
makes a difference. Like, people are waiting anyway. You might as well give them something
fun and interesting and, oh, they happen to learn about
some other product you have. Like, that'll be okay if
the if the event delivers. Hundred percent. And, actually, I'm gonna
say a win that was huge, the state of video live. Instead normally every video team should help
people produce some pre roll waiting thing,
like, time or clock. Like, this is so easy
for video people. But, like, what we ended up doing
was we just had we stole movie trivia before the webinar started. So we just had trivia
from state of video, and it was like it
instantly got chat going. It got it it's It's my
love language, dude. People in there. It was so fun. And it was like, people were
engaged. People were chatting. It's like, it
really I, you know, I love knowing what location
you're calling in from. I think it's fun. But, like, a little bit more
than that is nice as, like, the pre show. Yeah. When in
doubt, movie trivia. It Well, for webinar chats especially, I think
people I mean, I'm a big proponent of
adding GIFs to webinar chat. Like, my emotions cannot be
contained by emojis alone, and so I love adding GIFs
because it just gives people something to react to. And sometimes I I'm
I feel this way too. I don't have anything smart
enough to say in the webinar chat. So I'm like, I just wanna laugh
react, or I wanna heart react, or I wanna answer, like,
which of these is a berry? Is it a banana? Is it a
raspberry? Like, what is it? Like, I think getting the chat warmed
up with those really low stakes questions giving them something
to react to other than just having to get out their
location is a great way to get people engaged
right from the jump. Yeah. I I think also about the
the people who are there who are choosing to spend their
time at this event. Like, if you have fifty
people at a webinar, I think sometimes video
teams are like, well, I want thousands of
views on my thing. Like, is it worth it, to make something
that's for fifty people? But if you if you
were to imagine, like, fifty people walked into the
front door of your office and you had to have them
something good to show them, you would definitely
invest in that. And, like, that's effectively,
like, kinda what's happening. And it's just unfortunately,
because it's online, like, you're looking at that right
next to looking at, like, a social clip, right
next to looking at, like, a thought leadership piece, right next to looking
at this organic traffic. And I think that that's that's
the part that can sometimes be confusing here in terms
of how much to invest. Because it's and the difference
is if you know that people are gonna spend one hour
actually paying attention, that is ridiculous. And so you have to
make the most of it. I think it makes it I mean, we've seen so much success
from making those clips, making the pace
feel much faster. And, I mean, not to just,
like, toot our horn, but people are literally
in the comments being like, this the greatest webinar I've
ever been to, which feels good, but they say it every time. And I think it's because, like, there's still so much
opportunity there. Like, most people are
not actually doing this, and therefore, like, you can be pretty
differentiated by doing it. Just a little bit nicer. It's a lot better. Zooming out a little bit,
I guess I'm curious, like, in previous years for SOV, for the report anyway, it felt
like there was a lot more, like, fear around creation or, like, the barrier. What are you shaking your head? V. I'm just laughing
at s o v. S o v. S o v? I just ate a video. It's like, I wanna
do the dun dun, like, from law and order s v u. Yeah. Oh, that's funny. You really interrupted
my flow statement. Yeah. SOV. No.
That's what happens. You got me. I'm flowing. I was gonna say that
in in past years, it seems like a big barrier
to video was around, like, fear of creation. Like, I don't know what to do. And now it seems like more
people are like, okay. I can kinda create the thing, but I wanna know if
the thing is working. Do you do you have
that sense in, like, video land these days? I feel like, actually, the most consistent barrier
to people making video is just always resources and time. And I think as we talked
earlier about the appetite for video being never ending and
never you can never satiate it, it's just becoming harder and
harder to feel like you're keeping up because that bar just
keeps raising higher and higher. So I think because video
has become so democratized, people are getting more
comfortable being on video and just looking at how, you
know, I think years ago, most video on your website or
most video for marketing was a really polished, maybe
explainer video on your home page, where now we're
seeing, maybe, like, lower polished videos on
social and, across, like, different emails and such. And I think that since the
quality people don't expect super studio high quality video, it feels more approachable. So maybe that's kind of what
you're saying where people don't feel like that's the
biggest barrier anymore. It's actually just keeping up
with the demand and trying to find enough resources to make
enough video for everyone. Yeah. That was very eloquent. I think I realized the
thing I was asking, and I didn't ask it well. Yeah. It's something totally
different. Go ahead, Salveen. I think I was trying to say I
think I was trying to say, like, what kind of
coffee do you guys like? Oh my god. Stop. You're
derailing everything, Savage. You're a monster. I'm I'm great. It's very good. I think I was trying to
say My my apology, Sylvia. I'm sorry. You're punchy. You know what?
That's what we're here for. We're keeping people
engaged on their toes. Okay. If in previous years, like, a big barrier to video
felt like comfort, like comfort being on camera,
comfort making the thing, Feels like now the
the sort of barrier is like, how do I know
it's less about comfort. Like, they feel
more comfortable. But how do you know if
your video is working? I guess, like, that's the other part
of this equation where I feel people are still, like, a
little bit in the dark. I think it depends on your goal. Like, every video has such a
different goal for what it's supposed to do, and that's
such a vague answer. That's not a very,
like, actionally, put this into action
right now kind of answer. But that's what I my first
thing that comes to my head is that that really depends on
thinking ahead of what is this video supposed to do. I think you used to
just make one video, slap it across every channel, and just pray that
something would come of it. I think now people are
a lot more intentional, and so I hope that maybe
thinking whether it's the channel it's on, the type of
audience when it's meeting them, or connecting it to the other
parts of the organization that might help people understand
better if it's working or not. I think a video fails when
you're trying to tie it to every goal under the sun, and you're trying to make it do
everything, everywhere, all the time. It's kind of
there's, that saying, I I don't know. I'm totally gonna butcher
this, but it's like, if you're saying everything, you're not saying anything at
all or something like that. Yeah. That's kind of what
comes to my brain. Yeah. I feel like for me, in terms
of how you're measuring it, I think there was this really
large trend in performance, like the rise of, like, performance marketing and
everything is tracked and everything is
benchmarks to all of it. One thing I've been
noticing is, like, as more executives end up on LinkedIn posting videos, this is just my own two cents, but I feel like they're
referring to their success by the comments. Like like, it's more likely
that you're gonna see, like, lots of exec be like, oh,
these are great comments. I posted a video and I
got really good comments, really great things. They like a few years ago, they wanted if I posted a video
and went to like my leadership team and when I got great
comments, they'd be like, oh, well, it's gotta be views. It didn't get many views,
Sam. That was kind of a waste. But now that executives are
starting to post more videos on their own, they're like, Oh,
these comments are great. These things No, that's
interesting. Yeah. Shift in the like, now that you have more
executives making videos, more executives are measuring
and understanding that the comments, the engagement, those types of things
really matter because they're like, let's follow-up with that guy. See how he's doing, what
she said. Let's find her. Let's get a partnership going. Why are you killing
me right now? Like and then all of a sudden,
it's like and, you know, now if I'm talking about a
video performance, it's like, oh, Sam, don't worry. We've got the right
people in the room. That was not the conversation
necessarily happening like a couple of years ago. And so I think like really it's
like starting to shift from like, as more people, as more execs are taking on
the role of thought leadership, they're starting to look more
into the actual engagement and actual conversations. Are you trying to, like,
blow up my spot over here? What are you doing? Look. I'm just saying you're not
you're one you're one you're one executive who maybe
has some similarities. I don't know. I don't
know if it just happened. Yeah. Well, I mean You
do that, Savage. Like, you'll post things,
and that'd be like, these are great comments. Like, I'm just No. But I think it's I I'm
just really laughing, like, thinking about this because I think
it's so true what you're saying. And that, like, basically, it's so easy from the outside
to complain and ask these, like, really high level
numbers and wonder, like, why is it things not
moving the needle. But then you're actually doing
it yourself and you realize, oh, this is, like, this is one of those things that I
really need to pay close attention to. And if I'm getting
a lot of comments, it's it's such a small fraction
of people who are going to comment and actually
care enough. And then are the comments real
is like the other you start looking at the details to get
your full picture of, like, is this thing motivating attention
and engage it the way that we want? Yeah. Like, I feel like you're looking
at the details more now than you were than maybe looking
at the top level numbers. Like, you might look at the
top level numbers and be like, this video got a lot of views. I should look at what,
like, people are saying. And I feel like now it might
be starting to reverse where you're like, people are
saying really good things. Is this video getting a lot
of views? Is it expanding? Well, I think we're judging I think
almost we're implicitly judging the different pieces
now where it's like, if someone makes a
video and it has, like, incredible comments on it, then you're and and you
you basically can tell the content's great. Then it's like, well,
if we know it's great, what should we be doing about
the distribution of this thing? Where before, I think, like, people were often removed
from the quality piece of it. So they're just looking at,
like, the high level metrics. And I I wonder if part of it
too is, like, this huge, like, AEO shift of, like, the
alligator thing of, like, you're gonna get
more impressions. Like, you people's
impressions are going up, clicks are going down. Yep. Oh. So then it's alligator. So, like, your
impressions are going up, your clicks are going
down, but, like, is the quality of
sign ups going up? And Then you so it's forcing us to get
deeper to understand what's going on. And then, oh, the quality is going
so then what do we need to do? Like, I think to myself, the companies that have the
best products and the best brand and the best service are
gonna do better in AI world because they can't fake it. So it actually simplifies
what to focus on to a degree, which is like make your
make your **** amazing. And then, like, if
you can do that, yes, you're gonna have to do all
the other right things to make people aware of it. But, like, you're not gonna take off if
your stuff's not great because, like, the AI is gonna tell you people
people hate this product for this reason or they hate
the pricing for that reason. And I feel like this it's a similar
thing happening with content. It's like your content's really on
point and it's for the right audience. Eventually, the
algorithm is so good, it gets to the right people. So it forces you to to
zero in on the details. I just love that this paradigm
shift is predicated on CEOs discovering comments. That's it. I think We've we've
discovered comments. Well, I think it's also that,
like I mean, I'm being honest. Yeah. But I think No. I don't think I think
it is hugely CEOs, like, getting comments. Is a big part of it. I think it's I think it's but I
think it's also that we've had, like look. There's tons of companies that had
incredible SEO and ****** products. Yep. And they grew big businesses. Yep. And That's not the
world we live in anymore. And that's shifting. Yeah. And so that's kinda what
like, before, be like, just make more pages. Just do more stuff. And I'm like, no. It's
not that simple. Right. And if you're someone who
actually wants to make great stuff, it's gonna be better. It's like a more
equal playing field, but it's very disruptive
on the way in. And so I think when these
kind of moments happen, it causes everyone to get into
or should cause them to get into the details. I think that's very true. And I think, like, it seems like
intentionality woah. I have something on my glasses. This is how Sylvia
is without glasses. This is me without glasses.
I actually am so blind. Savage, you're the only you're
the only regular eyeglasses. That's Yeah. Come on. You wanna join
the four eyes gang? I tried wearing blue eyeglasses, but I just couldn't do it. I'm so blind. Like, I'm scared. Because I shouldn't say that. Scared. You should
have laser eyes. Cut that right out. No. This is this is the goal. This is gonna be the best clip
of this whole thing? Nope. And so it's just
like, I'm blind. And then all the
comments are like, what happened to this person? Why do they look like this? Nope. It feels like being
intentional is, like, very important these days,
whether that's in your video strategy, in your, like, how
you're showing up on social. And like before,
obviously SEO you had to be intentional about
the words you were choosing, but not necessarily the, like, the deeper things. It was, like, intentional for the
robots but not for the humans. Yeah. You you get me, Meg. I know. I'm producer
brain, I got you. You get me. Sorry. I don't know. I'm
an enemy to cut you off. You didn't. I was I
sort of cut myself off. So you're saying the sum of the
glasses is staying in? Yeah. We've lost the plot. Okay. Last last question.
What will the future hold? The future oh, okay.
I got my future. I got my future answer. So, like, if this if this goes on
social, like, please put, like, a large warning Sam doesn't
actually know anything about sports. That is for sure gonna
happen. I want you to know. Like, I don't I don't
really know sports. That's the thumbnail. I don't know sports. But K. I'm, like, obsessed with, like
when Brad Stevens took over coaching the Celtics, he talked about this change in the
way the teams were, like, organized. Basically saying that, like, players had gotten so
much better that the traditional roles no
longer were, like, particularly useful. And so he came up with, like, a different system of
basically saying you have bigs, they're big people. Handlers, they handle the ball. Wings and swings,
they are, like, moving the ball around and
shooting tons and tons of threes. The thing about this is, like, one of the things is it
gave rise to what's called, like, positionless basketball. So everybody can play a little
bit of everybody's role. Everybody has a lot larger
of an overlap of skill sets, and things move around
a lot more dynamically. And if you think about, like, the way teams are
working today with, like because of things like AI, because marketers are just
getting better at stuff, I think we're basically
gonna drop down into, like, three roles. There are gonna be
people who are producers. They are just going
to be responsible for producing content no matter the
format, whether it's in text, whether it's video,
whether it's webinars, you will do that for your team. You are a producer. The next person I think
that will exist will be coordinators. People who are, like, running campaigns and making sure
that you have the right message in market
at the right time, and they're gonna be making
sure all the producers are, like, lined into,
like, campaign formats. And then the last is
just gonna be interfaces, like people who interface
with other humans, interviews, events, doing things in
person, partnerships. And I think like when we look
at the marketing team of the future, I think it's
going to be a lot more multidisciplinary. And I think what you're gonna
see is a lot of companies start to move in this world where
even for us at Wistia, last year, we had a
big focus on guides. We really needed to
build up our, like, guides and resources. Meg is on the team,
producer working on guides, building out our guide library. The end of this year, we are building out
our webinar library. Meg, the same produce per producer
is shifting into a different focus. Right? Like, this is gonna be the thing
that I think is gonna be the biggest change is like Okay, Meg,
winging and swinging. Meg is winging and swinging. Like, but everybody, she can do all of the
different capabilities. She's has skills and
coordinators in other areas. So, like, to me, that's what we're gonna be
seeing as the big future. You're gonna get marketing
teams that are more dynamic. You're gonna get individuals
that are more dynamic and do a wider range of things. And then you're going to have
teams shift their goals as opposed to just saying
like, every year, we have to gain more
email addresses. And your goal every single year is
to get more people into the database. Like, you'll pick larger and
bigger goals and adjust your teams based on that. And I think like that is gonna
be the thing you're gonna see a lot and it's gonna be really
chaotic and it's gonna be really confusing for
lots of teams and lots of individual people. And so like, I think
there's gonna be a period of like with the Celtics where you
were often watching them and they were just missing
threes and doing terrible. And you're like, is
this system working? Why did we commit to this? And then it clicks together
and you have everybody working really, really cohesively. And I think, like, that
is going to be the future. That's gonna be, like, the
next two to three years. That's my prediction. Yeah. I like how
complete that is. And I I I and I agree with you. I think it's also in
a sense, basically, when you're, like, a tiny
startup, everyone wears, like, many hats, and they have to. And then you we've scaled
by specializing, and, like, the specialization is
effectively going away. And we're gonna use tools
to help us specialize, and we're gonna have generalists
with different focuses. And I agree with you that I
think it's gonna be pretty rocky at first because, like, everyone is gonna be able just
like we were talking before, everyone can make videos. Like, everyone can
make a website. Everyone can make an ad. Everyone's gonna have the
data on how it's performing, and you're gonna have
to, like, figure it out. But I think on the
other side of it, it's it's gonna let us
accomplish bigger things. Can you put this on
stage for a second? What do you got? I don't know. Was like this. Wow. Amazing. This is
what technology can do. Wow. We needed this, I mean. It bad. This is great. This is Sam Stevens. Yeah. That's my dream.
That's my dream. This is your dream. Richard, there he is. You don't know much about
sports, but here you are. I know. Celtics. Yeah. Mister, like, let me let me say I
don't know them and then be like, the point guard, the handler. Yeah. I was so happy that metaphor
didn't get any deeper into sports because you would
have completely lost me. Yeah. But I think he
brought it back home. Gotcha. You lay you
landed that plane. You did, and I was impressed
with your sports knowledge. It sounds like you know sports. Yeah. You really do. You sound like need the warning
at the beginning so nobody asks follow-up questions. I don't really know that much. Perfect. For me, I feel like if
I were to grab the video marketing magic
eight ball, like, shake it really hard and
sort of like a prediction, but also what I'm
really hoping for, It would be if we're thinking
about how social engagement is becoming more important and how we
want to use more webinars and, like, that live engagement is so
valuable and people are just so engaged during that time. I think more and more people
are gonna start focusing in on more niche communities and
niche, streaming events. Like, if you look at the
broader video space, like, outside of business, outside
of, like, SaaS or whatever, people love things like
Twitch and YouTube streams, because it feels like you're
hanging out with someone. It feels like you're
you belong there, like, you're part of the event. And I know Wistia, there's,
like, this idea that the word, like, webinar has this, like,
corporate stink to it that, I feel like we at Wistia know that
webinars don't need to be boring. But I think when people
see the word webinar, sometimes they think, oh, I'm just gonna sit through
someone's slide deck as they make no eye contact with
anyone, and they just, like, slowly go through it. Like, why am I here? But I think at Wistia, we've tried to do as much as
we can to make it a really fun, valuable experience where
we're hosting variety shows, game shows, DJ hours. And I think and I hope that
more people start to understand that a webinar is not just a
slide deck and is not just a boring presentation that
someone could easily get over email or get in a blog post. And so I just really hope
that people start getting more creative with what they do with
that live time because there's just so much opportunity there. And like we were
talking about earlier, that attention is so valuable
and so rare for any sort of marketing material. So I'm just looking forward to a
lot of really cool unique things. And I also think the best thing
about live is that you can't plan for everything, so there's
gonna be stuff that messes up. And that actually kind of
humanizes the people on both sides of the screen. And so even when the the
producer in me is sweating profusely when something goes
wrong or something's out of place, I always have to remind
myself, like, you know what? We're just human. And now they know that
even if this was partially prerecorded and live, like,
we're just marketers. We're just humans just trying to
do the same thing that you all are. So that's my hope. Yeah. I think that's Love that. Yeah. I love that too. And I I think that the
stakes of being live are what people like. Right? Like, the chance that it might go
wrong slightly and then has one react to that is often
A little schadenfreude. Yes. A little, like,
blooper reel. Yeah. It's a mix of both, like, wincing and, like,
laughing with you. Yeah. Totally. And my prediction, you thought we were done. We are done. Nothing. Oh, Sylvie, what a joke. Hilarious. What a joke. Well look. It was so good to have you both
here today going through State of Video, your predictions
for the future, how AI is changing everything, what's what people should think
about how they're using video, how video is being
democratized, how to repurpose. We've we've covered
a lot, so thank you. Where can people connect
with you to learn more? You can always hit
me up on LinkedIn. I like to chat to people.
You could just email me. I use email still, s
balter at wistia dot com. If you have any questions on
things like this, I think Bold, Sam. That works well too. I I connect. I'm I'd love directly
talking to people. So if anybody needs anything,
just reach out to me. Yeah. And same here. You can catch me on
LinkedIn, and email. I don't know if you'll
able to spell it, but m Dell'Sondro
at Wistia dot com. If not, it's probably somewhere. Just find me on LinkedIn. Nice. Awesome. Thank you both. Thank you. Thanks for having us. So quick recap from today.
Everyone's making video now. The marketer, the
engineer, the founder, everyone is in the mix. Distribution matters
more than ever, which means you have to think
about where your videos show up and how they get seen. And engagement is
the metric to watch. Are people actually responding?
Are they commenting? Are they taking action? If you can get those
three things right, you're in a really good place. For anyone who wants to
go deeper on Stata video, you can check out the live
show and download the report on wistia dot com. And if you enjoyed this episode, make sure to like and subscribe
to Talking Too Loud wherever you get your podcasts.