Expert: chris-savage
Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TL85DlV0uSg
Date collected: 2026-06-13
============================================================

When you're creative and you're
like working on something for a while and then you finally
finish it, you're just like, oh my god I can't
deal with this thing. What types of videos should
people really be making? How to videos are
the most engagement. Those videos are,
like, nonnegotiable. Even the ones that I
see that are, like, you couldn't even
guess this was AI. I guessed it was AI. What would I talk about
with Chris Savage? I'm your host, Chris Savage. This is the show that serve
the loudest takes on building businesses, top notch products,
and unforgettable brands. This episode is a special one. We recorded it in person in the
studio with one of my favorite people to talk video with. So if you've ever wondered
what's really working in video marketing or wanna hear some
spicy takes from our head of content, Sam Balter,
stick around. Okay. So Sam, this report starts
with a pretty bold claim, a pretty loud take, if you will. Yes. Which it says video isn't
just a part of the strategy. It is the strategy. Do you think that's true, or
did you lie in your report? That one was from
Pieter from Superside. That was a quote from him, and I don't think I
lied in the report. I think that is true. I think a lot of brands are
shifting to just thinking about making their content from, like, a video first perspective. Yeah. Like, a lot of the times
on content, you'd, like, write a blog post, the blog
post would turn into an ebook, the ebook would
then become a video. And I think a lot of people
are working in the reverse, where they're thinking about
the video first and then making those other derivative
assets out of it. So it's like, what is gonna
make the video perform? Because you could just get more
views on videos in general than if you had the same piece of
content that might be a blog post. Do you think that's just
the change in, like, how Google search works, what
it reward like, you know, today, obviously,
if you make content, the further the further afield it is
from the the core of what you talk about, the less likely it is to actually
get traffic and engagement. Well, that was not true
ten years ago. Yes. And but, like, a lot of
video is the the currency, the medium that on so many
platforms actually can get you more maybe not traffic to
start, but more attention. Do you think that's why this is? Or Yeah. And I mean, I think, like, every platform is just
shifting that way. Even we had some data from
SEMrush this in this year's report, and it was
saying that out of, like, general search results, now about thirty percent of
those search results are videos. That's wild. So it's like we're
talking, like, Google has shifted to this. If you're on LinkedIn videos, Twitter's shifting
towards videos, and then you have video
specific platforms. So it's anybody who was a
primarily text platform is also incorporating video as well. And I think the reason they're all
doing it is because people click on it. And so, like, whatever
people click on, they're gonna add more
of that type of content. If marketers are still
treating video kind of like an afterthought or
like a side hustle, what's what's the warning? What's gonna happen to these? I I don't I mean, I think
it's, like it takes time to shift to, like, a content team
or a content strategy. Like, I don't think these are
things you can shift overnight. And I think for a lot
of companies, like, it's not like, oh, if you don't
jump on this today, you're screwed. But, like, it is one of
those things where, like, you have to start moving
in that direction. You have to start trying out
videos that are gonna work and maybe picking a channel or
picking a type of video and just iterating on that
process over and over again. Because I think, like, it's also in general for
marketers just more fun to create videos than I think a
lot of other pieces of content. So it's like if you get it well
where you have a successful video that performs well
and it was fun to make, you're gonna do that over
and over and over again. And so I think, like, that's one of the things that's
really exciting for people. Let's let's go deeper on,
like, types of videos. So, like, looking at the
report, looking at the data, what types of videos should
people really be making? Like, what does it become something
you have to do versus something like, oh, maybe I should
take a look at this? Yeah. Like, for the second
year in a row, how to videos are
the most engagement. And I think a lot of companies
should be thinking about, like, their support documentation,
their explainers, how to use things, how to use how to explain up
certain workflow that their tool helps fix. Like, those videos are,
like, nonnegotiables because a lot of people are going to
YouTube to learn how to do things. Like, I'm gonna I'm gonna put
a dimmer switch on in my house. I'm not gonna read an article.
I'm gonna watch a video. I'm gonna use a
piece of software, and I wanna know how to,
like, embed the video on my website. I've gotta go to a video
over an article. Article. And so, like, for me, how to videos are the biggest
point of leverage because they actually do pretty
well on social. People will engage
with them there. They're gonna increase, like,
your general product adoption, and they're gonna help
people actually, like, see the product in use, which I think is one of the biggest
things companies could be doing. They're also not, like they
don't have to be, like, crazy branded, over the
top conceptual videos. They actually do well when
they're really easy and simple to understand, which I think
also makes it from, like, how do you get started
or figuring this out? It's, like, actually attainable. Yeah. And so it's just a much
lower bar to do, like, a screen record nicely to
walk through something that explain it or just show your product in
use if you have a physical product. And I think, like, that takes
away a lot of the pressure of, like, I need to make a fifteen
second really compelling ad. It's like you have a little
bit more space to write. You have a little bit
more space to, like, be authentic and kind of, like, get mix up your words a little
bit in a way where it would be a lot harder to do with
a much shorter video. So how to videos definitely feel more
approachable from the production side. Are there any other videos that
kind of have that same, like, oh, we're not video experts,
but we think we could do this? The unsung hero
would be the webinar. Like, the webinar is just like
a big video type that is sort of weirdly siloed off
from the rest of videos. They're kind of like
made as these, like, big chunks of things
where you're focusing on getting people to attend the webinar, but then you end up after the
webinar with like thirty to sixty minutes of video content. And so, like, that is one of those where a
lot of people should be sort of really focusing on what they
could get out of their webinars because it's such a good asset that
people just don't really use enough. And even in this year's
State of Video report, we asked people, like, what are the most impactful
video types for you? And webinar was,
like, number two. So it's one of these
things where it's, like, it doesn't get the shine
of, like, a fancy product video. Yeah. It doesn't have, like,
the same level of, like, tutorial ness of a how to that might
perform well on social, but it's, like, thirty plus minutes of really good
content that you put a ton of work into. So I think it's one
of those that's, like, that's a really good video type
people should be focusing on and spending time on, like,
how do I make this better? How do I improve it? How do I
make the content more engaging? Or how do I, like, play in the content in such a
way where it's more usable later? Yeah. I think that's
a key point. Right? Because, like, webinars also
are they are really close to a metric that matters. Right? It's, like, how
many people signed up? And they signed up, and they
signed up to watch the thing live. And so you get the email, and you can actually
compare that to other, like, efforts that you do. But then it does seem like
what we're seeing is this expectation shifting, right, which is where you now assume
you can always watch something. So I'm gonna learn
how to do this thing. I can watch how to do it. I assume I'm gonna be
entertained and educated. Mhmm. And then actually look
at the webinars, like, when you look at it as a thirty,
sixty minute video, it's like, duh. Like, why wouldn't you
make clips from it? Yeah. And and I think that but I
think if you look at it as, like, one person sharing
a screen, and they're, like, really tiny in the corner,
doesn't sound that exciting. You know what I mean? Like, I feel like it's, like, the the shift in the form of
what webinars are becoming now has put us in a position
where it's like, hey, we can actually start to meet
the audience expectations. And one of the ways we
could do that is, like, the webinar's more exciting, but then also that means
the clips are better. There's, like, more of a reason for
someone to continue to follow along or more of a reason to remind
somebody of the things that they just took away,
all that kind of stuff. Yeah. And I think, like, for
for me, it's, like, we've been using more
prerecorded content throughout webinars, and I think
it's just, like, something a lot of people could
be looking at is, like, oh, I'm gonna build this right
nice prerecorded thing. I'm gonna play it
during the webinar, then I'm gonna go
to live q and a, or I'm gonna go back and forth
between prerecorded and regular. So you could add, like, the production value of a
prerecorded video into the format of a webinar, and now you have this really great
thing to clip for afterwards. I feel like that's also I mean, that's how a lot
of the news works. Yes. Right? It's not all
just the people at the desks. It's not. Yeah. But it's like it's
like the, you know, going on location and shooting
the stories and bringing it back. And I think about that a lot
because it is basically two often two, three people, one
person sitting behind a desk. Yep. And that's all they're doing. And it's, like,
it's actually, well, the way that we're making
it interesting and the way that we're, like, helping you better
understand the information is, like, there's graphics
that show up, slides. There's, like, prerecorded,
like, sessions that come back. It's like, okay. Compressing a lot of
storytelling into one thing. And then all when you think of it as
all those assets can live on their own, I think it makes it worthwhile
to make a lot of those prerecorded assets when I'm sure if
you're looking at it, it's like, well, I hope I get a hundred and
fifty people at this thing, and I get them. And I spent a ton of time and
effort. Should I really do it? Should I really make
a prerecorded session? And it's like, well, if it's
only for that one event, maybe. Depends on how valuable it is. If it's gonna be living
on a lots of other places, then it's it becomes
a no brainer. Yeah. And it's, like,
even for us, like, for last year's State
of Video live show, we had it where normally,
like, a webinar, it's, like, most of the views
come for the day people show up, and then there's,
like, a little dwindle. People will watch it
for, like, maybe two, three months afterwards
or something like that. Sometimes, like,
up to four months. But for our state of video,
last year, we're like, okay. We're gonna get a ton of
use out of this content. We're gonna embed it in
a blog post that's, like, very SEO rich. We're gonna make a bunch
of clips out of it, and people are still watching
State of Video Live from last year. Like, it's twelve
months later, and, like, we're still getting
views on that content. We still have stuff
from, like, clips. It's just, like, putting that effort in
means the long tail is so much longer. I feel like the SOV report goes
hard on repurposing content. Why do you think
so many marketers treat video like a one off campaign
rather than a content buffet? I think I mean Oh my gosh. That's great. I mean, why
is it a content buffet? Why is the video more
of a content buffet? That felt right. Yeah. I don't know
what that means. But Just like that
you can, like, keep going back to
it for more and more. Yeah. That that was
the thinking up there. Keep going. It's like an all
you can eat buffet. An all you can eat buffet. Why what stops people
from keep going back? Not a one plater. Not a one plater. Yeah. I think people are shifting
where people are going back more for seconds
seconds on videos, more for thirds on videos,
trying things again. Thank you for
extending this move. Yeah. I'm stuck with it. I think, like, the other thing is one
thing I think about is sometimes stuff is just exhausting to
produce the bigger it is, and then when it's done when
you're creative and you're like working on something for a
while and then you finally finish it and it's done and
you get it out of the world, like sometimes you don't
want to see it again. Like you're just like oh my god
I can't deal with this thing. And I think like since videos
sometimes are like can be higher production you might
feel that way like oh I put a lot of effort into this. So, I think like one part of it
is just like I put a lot of effort in, I'm done, it's out the door. I think the second thing that
kind of like holds people back a little bit from repurposing is
there's just a lot of demand for video. So you're on to the next
one Yeah. Relatively quick. Whereas, like, with blogging, I feel like that was the way it
was for a while where you were like, on to the next blog
post, on to the next blog post, on to the next blog post. But then people started
to figure out, like, oh, if I'm just optimizing old post
or if I'm refreshing or if I'm reusing, I could
get more out of it. And I think that workflow
that we applied to, like, text and blogging is now
starting to get applied to video, where people are looking at
their video libraries and saying, like, there's a
lot of good stuff in here. I could maybe update
a clip of this one, or I can shorten it or add a
different bumper and get more use out of what I already had. There's a part of the state of
video report when we talk about people, how much time and
effort is spent on, like, making the video
versus promoting it. Maybe you can go a little
deeper here with, like, what we've seen and what
people should take away. Yeah. I feel like for the we
saw this year that, like, most people are spending the
vast amount of their time creating videos and way
less time promoting them. And I think that's one of
those things where it's like, that's where we are today, where everybody is
spending most of the time. They create it, they get
it, they ship it out, and it goes on social, I think we're gonna probably
see a time period where we start getting more
to, like, fifty fifty. And I think some of that stuff
is gonna get divided into subgroups where it's gonna
be, like, promoting the video, making the video into various
different versions and promoting those
different versions, testing different thumbnails, testing different there
things there, testing, like, different variations of it. And so, like, I feel like people are
in the kind of early stages of, like, variation testing and,
like, creating, like, new thumbnails for it. You see that a lot on YouTube, but you don't see
that as much on, like, people's websites
or even on, like, a lot of other how
people go about videos. So, basically, I would
say I think that, like, people are spending a lot of
time creating because it's still a new muscle for
a lot of businesses. But as time goes on, I would expect people
to spend more time, a larger percentage of
their time promoting. That makes perfect sense. I think, also, let's jump into
the AI conversation because, obviously, it's all Your fave. It's well, it's one of my
fave. Yeah. One of my fave. And very directly
connected, I think, here. Right? So, like, what are we
seeing today in terms of in the report, we talk about
AI as a creative multiplier. Mhmm. Let's talk about, like, where do we where do we
see people using it today? Where do we where does it
look like they're gonna use it next so that they can actually,
you know, in in many cases, try to decrease the amount of
time spent on production so they have more time for
some of the other things. Basically, one of
the things is, like, AI adoption is way up. Yeah. So it's one of those things
where it's like, okay. By the end of the year, you'll probably see sixty
percent of people working in video using AI in subcapacity. What was surprising
to me was, like, I thought it was gonna be
all AI generated visuals, all, like, AI avatars
and stuff like that, but the use cases were way more
in preproduction scripting, and then at the very
end of, like, sharing. So one of the things
that I thought was, like, interesting talking to
people and also, like, the video people
at Wistia is, like, we use it a lot just
for scripting videos, and other people are
using it for things like, I need to adjust the
tone of this script Mhmm. Or they're using some sort of
other content asset like I have a blog post and I wanna
turn this blog post into a thirty second video or a
sixty second video, write me the script for it. And I thought that was
just something that I was, like, very surprised to see
because I would think, like, video and editing would have not
been the text scripting part of it. Yeah. Like, I would have thought it
would have been the visuals. I would have thought it would
have been the editing side. On the post where they're,
like, closely equally using it, it's more on things
like captions, adding captions to videos, and then language translation
and dubbing, and so it's, like, very interesting to see people
now just being so into, like, oh, it's not really changing the
creative process or what the video looks like, but it's all
those time saving things of, like, making sure you have good
captions or any of those other parts adjusting those. Which I think is a cool
win for creatives. Right? Because if if everyone was
using it for the creative execution part, we could just see a lot of
videos that all look the same. Right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like, everybody looking like,
Studio Ghibli or everybody being, like, an action figure. Like, that would be the result
in video world, but, like, that's not really what we see. Yeah. I think it's a big difference
between what you see people playing with Mhmm. And then sharing on social, and then what are they
actually using day to day. Because the the, like, the
scripting part does make sense. Like, the AI Gen AI writing
has gotten much better. And also writer's block sucks. So, like, if you're sitting there
trying to cope with an idea for something and you're like, make
me five different versions, I I mean, I feel I feel like
I use it sometimes for that, and I don't use a
single one of those. I feel like it's it's that. It's like, make me make
me five. Make me three. Make me four. So just being able to see those
variations that quickly. Yeah. Then you react to them.
Right. And that's I hate it. Love it. Like,
it's just like, no. More than that. That's what this There's also a
weird thing in there where it's like, if this is a human being who
just spent a bunch of time writing a script for you, you don't normally
just say I hate it. Yeah. Oh, this sucks. You can't it's like socially,
that would be, like, maybe you didn't Bad taste. I'm in the I edit, so I do that. But, like, like I think a lot of
people are not used to doing that, like, if someone just
put in a lot of work. Yeah. And I do think it's
interesting because, like, you almost with the
AI, you're like I mean, I think you should
generally treat it nicely. But, but I think you
can be much more direct. Yeah. That they can give
more candid feedback. Yeah. And then it's like, I at least
find I'll be super direct, and sometimes I don't use
any of the things that it generated, but it helped me
decide what I do wanna do. And so it's, like, as if I
needed someone to brainstorm with, and we're just gonna
spend an hour coming up with ideas, like, oh, we've five
minutes later, I've got five. And I I it made me really think I have
conviction about one or something. It made me think of
another idea related to it. Which is interesting
because it makes sense. There's still human
editing deciding Yeah. Which of these story lines, which of these things
am I gonna take, and I'm gonna use the process
that I love doing and I'm really good at doing. Yeah. And in the end, the
other stuff, like, AI dubbing is a you can't do it. Like, you couldn't do it. I just think it's, like, a
lot of times too, it's, like, if you're used to if you've
ever worked with a writing partner where you've worked on
writing together, it's, like, part of the process is just
bouncing ideas off each other. Yeah. But a lot of marketers don't
really operate like that anymore. We're, like, very siloed
from each other as, like, you do this type of you take
hot debt, you do another type. And so, like, AI has been nice for
that because it does kind of remind me of having a
writing partner again. Like, oh, yeah. This is great. Like, I like that part. This
is good. That's terrible. I don't mind telling people
things are terrible or I don't like them at edits. So That's great. That's good for That just makes me
wonder, like, on a whole, do you think that
marketers who are let's say they're newer
to video strategy, do you feel like they should
just be sharing scripts and ideas way more than they do? Like, could that
actually make an impact? Yeah. I mean, I think so. I think it's always good to
share your work as, like, a creative and try and, like,
collaborate with people. I think the issue with
any kind of thing, even sharing AI or
not or whatever, it's like you don't have
to take people's feedback. Like, it's good to get people's
feedback to see what their reactions are, but you can just
ignore it a lot of the time. And I think that's, like, an important thing with any
kind of feedback is just to be directive of the type of
feedback you're looking for. And, like, AI has helped me do
that a little bit because I'll be like, oh, fix this or,
like, I don't like this. And I'm it's, like, forces you to give more direct
or more specific feedback. I also think, like,
looking at the report, you see the demand
for video is way up. Yeah. Right? Every video everywhere, video
first content, basically. You take the video and make other
assets from it, stuff like that. And budgets are not. Yes. Which
is, like, another big factor. We've basically been through
a period of time of, like, a boom with COVID and
then, like, a pullback. And people are
basically saying, look, the world around us is shifting. You gotta get there. And so I think it's also, in a
lot of cases, like, you know, it'd be nice to sit there in
a room with five people on every video and brainstorm and come up
with all the person we just can't. Mhmm. Yeah. Which was it kinda
comes through loud and clear. So it's the same message we
heard last year too, which is, like, demand is up for
video, budgets are not. So we have to find tools that help
us try to Speed up parts of that. Parts of this so that the part
that we're doing that we can do uniquely, like, very well,
we're, like, leaning in there. I think the other thing
about budget that I think is interesting is, like, video
is not a line item, really. It's like video is not a
line item for most companies, so they don't have
a sense of, like, what they could do with video. And I think, like,
a lot of, like, more senior leadership people
would benefit from telling their marketing teams, like, we really wanna go
all in on video. You have a fifty
thousand dollar budget. Whether that's making studios, working
with contractors, other things. Sometimes, like, you get into this weird
thing in marketing land where people are like, pitch me an idea, and I'll tell you if I
have budget for that. Yeah. Yeah. And I think a lot of the times
it could work a little bit better for a lot
of people is like, I want you to grow
video at this company. We're allocating a hundred
thousand dollars or eighty thousand or fifty thousand or ten
thousand or whatever it is to video. How does that change
what you're gonna do? I think you're
completely right on that. I think that's something
that, like, basically, there's companies that have
somebody internally who is already good, or
they have, like, a relationship with an agency
or one person who can, like, come and help them, and
then companies that don't. And often, I don't think it
is, like, super premeditated, where it's we're saying, hey, we just expect that video
is gonna be a part of this. Mhmm. Mhmm. But I think we like, we
have done that with design. Right? Like, marketing teams, like, we you expect there's
gonna be design. To be like, it's
part of the budget. Yeah. And it didn't used to be. Like, it used to
be a lot of, like, outsourcing to other firms,
like, helping you do it. Not everything would look good.
Some stuff would look good. And it's like, no. The world around has changed,
and it went from, like, design being, like, a nice to have in a
differentiator to a requirement. Like, if you wanna
compete today, like, we expect our stuff
to be beautiful. Like, we ordered food. I'm expected to come
in a beautiful bath. I'm not even kidding. Like, it's just like,
that's just what we expect. And that's part of
what you pay for. And I think that we're kind of
in this transition of people figuring out that, like, video
is is not only here to stay. It's critically important. And And then I think the
difference is actually what you're saying is, like, if
you can just create a little budget, it gives
people much more freedom to be creative. Yes. Yeah. And it's, like, even
the thing of, like, just it starts I feel like the
first budget item is headcount, and it's, like,
we've seen this year, we looked at how many people
are you creating an in house versus are you using agencies? And, like, in house
keeps growing. Yeah. So it's like the first
line item is like, are you spending headcount
budget dedicated to video? And then I think the next
thing is once you get headcount budget and you have agency
budget, that it's like, okay. Great. Now you are getting a dedicated line
item for video that you could use. Hearing it like that, like, video
as a line item is is, I yeah. I feel like we're not
quite at that moment, but we are shifting
into that moment, which is really cool to see. I think that's also where
places where video gets you distribution, people have
an easier time investing in. Yeah. Because you're still risk. Like, you may not guarantee
that you get the distribution, but you can almost
look at it as, like, ad dollars or something. So it's like, oh, I would have spent ad dollars to
get my message in front of people. Instead, I'm gonna spend
production dollars and hope that organically, like, I get some
reach in these different places. Yeah. And the challenge
has just been, like, the speed of the change. Right? Because, as you talked about
before, a lot of these places, like, basically, every social
media platform was text first, and they're all turning
into video first. Yeah. There's it's not, like, very few
things are holding on to be, like, a non video thing or or video
is excluded from the platform. Like, I don't really know of
something that people use a lot today that doesn't
have a video component. Yeah. I know. I'm trying
to think right now. Like, besides Substack. But even they have
video. Yeah. True. And then and then it'll
probably become a bigger thing. Yeah. Yeah. I can't
think of anything. Yeah. But that I mean, link LinkedIn was the one that
surprised me because it just seemed like I don't know
why it surprised me, but the fact that they made
the vertical video tab and then now that, like, got had, like, a huge amount of organic reach and they
figured that out was, like, oh, wow. Even this. This place that was, like,
business y content that was, like, not as cool and not
as, like, entertaining, Like, this has become
is becoming video first. I feel like the thing that
got me on to LinkedIn being, like, very video y is just courses. Like, it hasn't clicked
quite yet in in LinkedIn, but I was like, oh, they're really putting
money behind this. You know what I mean? Like,
you could get certifications. You could get courses. You could watch things on this. And it was like,
that felt like, wow. That's a really good fit. And I just didn't really
see it take off that well. And then Shortform
took off really well. That's a well, if you open the
if you open the app now, they, like, will will show you, like, a stream at the
top of videos Mhmm. And then everything else. And and, like, six months
ago, it was like, okay. There's a video tab. Yeah. And, like, two months before
that, there there there was, like, a video tab in beta,
but you knew it was working. If you put a vertical
video in a written post, there was a chance it was
gonna get this organic lift. It was very confusing. And, I mean, it still is the
case, but it's just yeah. I think that transition is
funny because it's almost like it was, like, will this work? And it looked work
better than I thought. Should we put it in the
footer? Oh, my okay. Now that's changed. And now it's like you don't even
have to click the button to see it. I think about that
too with, like, search because it's videos. It's like video was a tab up
at the top where you could be like, images, video this. Right. Now there's, like, top
videos, and it's a carousel. Then there's another
one that's, like, even below that that's
short form video specific, and it's all vertical ones. So it's like they're testing
out all these different new modules and stuff. Yeah. Let's pivot. So people
are making more videos. People are watching more videos. What about interactive
video features? Are there things that people
are using and they're seeing a lot of return on that? Are there things that
people are underutilizing? Yeah. So What's going on? In state of video,
Robert, we look at, like, three interactive features. So that's like a lead gen form. You know, it's an email capture
that pops up during the video, CTA, so that's, like, a
button or annotation links. Those are buttons that pop up. Overall, what's, like, very
interesting about those is, like, it's declining in usage. People are not using them as
much, like, year over year. But the weird thing
is that, like, the performance of them
remains really, really good. So, like, we see conversion
rates on those that are, like, above forty percent for, like,
a lead gen form on a video, which is kind of, like,
pretty unprecedented. Yeah. It's pretty
upsetting. Yeah. Yeah. And so it's, like, one of those things where
it's a huge opportunity. I think it's partially, though, that people are so used to so
trained for video to be, like, ephemeral and placed on social
that they don't think about what they could do with
video on their website. It's kinda like the webinars
where it's like Yeah. You know, webinar, you know
you're gonna sign up to get it. Yep. And, like, the
email form is, like, if you can position a piece
of content in the same way you position a webinar,
like, you invest it, you promote it like
it's a webinar, it will work like a webinar. Yeah. You'll get a lot of people
signing up just to watch that piece of content. It's actually a pretty
easy thing to do. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like the other thing
is, like, CTAs, I think, are just just underrated
in this area where, like, you put a video on and you're
talking about something. I'm in a video talking
about state of video report, and a button appears
that says, like, do you wanna download this? The person clicks it. Now they are there. Like, any time you can reduce
the amount of friction between somebody, like, seeing
something and being able to access it, the better. I think that's going to change
because of the way, like, shopping and videos are
starting to come together. Like, I think people are
getting more used to seeing, like, clothes or items in
videos and knowing, like, oh, I could do like, I'll go to the show notes
or I'll go to the video description to get whatever
the item is they're selling. And I think, like, you'll start to see that within
other videos that are like educational or B2B
or things like that, where it's like somebody
mentioned something in the video and you might
want to go get that. We might mention a piece of gear
that we recommend to people. It'd be much easier if we
recommend today and there was a button that was like, get
this piece of gear now. And so there's just, like,
a lot of opportunities. Or just having to search.
Like, people are lazy. So, like, if you could just
give them something to click, and, also, somebody is
presented with something to click, they're back engaged
to watching the video more. And so, like, that, I think there's just tons of
opportunity with those types of interactive elements that
people could be using. What's your favorite
takeaway from this report? My favorite takeaway
from this report? I think I just, like, very
happy to see the growth of, like, in house
teams and agencies. And I think, like, the
takeaway for me was talking with, Superside
and interviewing other people who are,
like, in agencies. I was really happy to see that
more in house people doesn't mean less agency work. And I think that
part of it is, like, really good to see this new
way that agencies and in house teams are working together. And I think that's
something that's, like, very exciting because if an in
house person is tasked with, like, oh, you gotta get this
video program up and running, they might think, like, oh,
it's all on them to do it. But the really successful
brands that people are doing really, really well
are learning, like, what they could do well in
house and how they could scale it up with agencies or
agencies or freelancers. And I think that's probably
one of the most, like, interesting takeaways for me. Yeah. I think that is I there was a
lot of discussion around that. Like, maybe eight
years ago, I remember, we had a conference, and we're
talking about this exact thing. And I've talked to people
often, like, oh, god. Like, is this gonna like,
what's gonna happen? Like, is everything gonna do
with house, and then, like, we're not gonna have,
like, work anymore. And I think it's just a
testament to the fact that, like, the demand for video is still exploding
at such a crazy rate because, like, there's so many places to put
it and so many uses for it. And, ultimately, like, this
cultural shift that has occurred, where it's, like, you we now expect
that we can watch. Right? And so when you expect,
you can always watch something. Well, that's a lot of
content you gotta make. I think that it is interesting to see
that actually getting there, like, there's so much content to make
and so many different places to put it it that there's more
than enough work for people in house and for agencies and
for tools to help you, like, be more efficient. Because even then, people are not keeping up with
the demands that they have just on themselves, right, like, the amount of content
that they wanna make. Make. Yeah. And it's like I think it was, Pieter from Superside
who was like, yeah. We used to get kind of request
to make, like, one video. Like, you would get, like,
I'm gonna go to this agency. They're gonna make one
slick product video for me. And he's like, now I
get requests for, like, fifty videos or, like, different variations of videos
or cut downs of videos or localizations of videos. So it's, like, just a new set of
work that didn't exist before. So that's probably one
of my favorite takeaways. I also just think, like, a lot of the stuff around
dubbing is really interesting to me because it's one of
those where the way that, the Dan Cadington from
3PlayMedia explained it was like, if you're
gonna dub a video, it costs basically the same based on
the number of minutes you're dubbing. And he's like, so it makes sense to
dub Game of Thrones because you're spending millions of
dollars on an episode. It doesn't make sense to dub
an internal video or dub, like, a short promotional video. But now that, like, dubbing
costs are down, he's like, you could be dubbing
things at, like, all these different languages and
start picking up audiences elsewhere. Yeah. And I don't know. For me, like, when I was
doing podcast at HubSpot, we had this show that was
called, like, Skill Up, and it was, like, a
fully written season, and it was just about one topic. And I noticed, like, hey, this
show is actually doing well in, like, the charts in, like, Mexico and Brazil
and stuff like that. What if we just remade the show
in Spanish or in Portuguese? It feels like, right,
another way to, like, retarget and go deep with
an audience that you haven't really had much traction
or you have traction with, but now you can have even more. Yeah. And then, like, then once we did
once the Spanish version was there, it was up on the
top of all, like, all Spanish speaking charts. Like, all of a sudden,
it moves up. Yeah. And so it's like a
lot of b to b brands, a lot of other brands are
investing in educational content that they're just not
they don't see the pathway forward or the economics to
change the whole thing into another language. Now you can, like, do that
a lot more affordably. I think it is also a lot of this
AI translation stuff is, like, some of the most accessible
technology I've ever I've ever seen, and it works so well. And it is affordable. And it but it does create, like, this other this other
thing, which is, like, more demand for content too. Mhmm. Which is, like, okay. Like, exactly as you just said. It's one thing to have a show, and then also have your website, and then also put
stuff on social, and also do live events,
all these things. And then you're, like, actually, we wanna support this
in other languages. Like well okay. Now you have to have, like,
there's another podcast. There's another YouTube channel. There's another everything. And the upside, if you can make
it work and build the systems, is that, like, you really can
get in front of more folks. I mean, this is, like, the
whole Mr. Beast thing. Right? I mean, he was really
early on this pre AI, like, hired voice actors in
different countries. A lot of times, he hires, like, famous actors in different
countries so that you it's, like, kind of a joke or, like, an in for the people in that
country and realize, like, if I make all these
separate channels, like, this is gonna be how I
create the largest audience. Yeah. And for for mister
b's, it's, like, his videos millions of dollars. You know what I mean? Like, so the dubbing
portion is, like, a very small thing for him,
but it's, like, very worth it. Yeah. Let's go into
rapid fire. Okay. So this interview, I would
say, has been pretty tame. Pretty tame. Pretty tame. Pretty tame. Pretty serious. So we're gonna spice
it up a little bit. This is the the too hot for
LinkedIn rapid fire edition on all these videos. So get ready, Sam. You might get canceled.
Got it. Are you ready? Sure. I'm ready. Let's go. First question. Which is worse, autoplay with sound or a
five minute explainer video with no hook? Five minute explainer,
no hook. K. Good. I mean, tell the tell us why. Just Well, there's no play in
the rapid fire. I don't know. Yeah. Autoplay gets the people
going. You know what I mean? Hooks don't no hook
doesn't get people going. There you go. Use no hook, no hook. If you could ban one phrase
for marketing videos forever, what would it be? Oh my god. That. I would just have Just more people's, like, umps. Just long, long drawn out, noises. That would be good. What's the most overused b roll
shot in brand videos right now? It's the most overused, but also my favorite where
someone is leaning over somebody else and they're
pointing at somebody. Yes. What a pull. Yeah. I love that so much. That's, like, one of
my favorite shots. I yeah. It's definitely overused,
but I'm not sick of it yet. AI Keep it in. AI avatars.
Game changer or nightmare? To me, nightmare. To me,
they're they're a nightmare. They are a nightmare. They are a nightmare. I don't they're they're fine. They look fine, I guess, but they're just Don't
they're just weird to me. They're a little bit strange
to me because it's like, I don't know what I'm
saving time doing. Yeah. Like, I don't understand why
I'm looking at the avatar versus a person, and it seems like it's just
slightly bizarre to me. And I feel like even even the
ones that I see that are like, you couldn't even
guess this was AI. I'm like, I guessed it was AI. You know, like, a lot of the times
I feel like I'm guessing correctly. You know. You know. What's one totally unhinged
place you'd love to see a brand embed a video? Unhinged place I would love
to see a brand embed a video? Probably I remember
I've been to, like, sporting events and above
urinals, they have TVs. I think that would probably be
my favorite most unhinged place is if, like, a brand
went really big there. I love that. If you're listening,
that's a watching. That's a that's a great
that's a great opportunity. Get out of the box.
Hands out of the yard. It's a captive artist. Going anywhere. It's really exciting. I can't imagine
it's that expensive. Or, oh, the other one I would
say would probably be, like, the gas station TVs. You know, like, when you're
filling up your car and they have, like, the little
TV at a gas station. Yeah. Nice to meet you. Go big there. There you go. Go really big. Really big, really
high production. Like, different videos
for, like, well, if you're going premium Yeah. Then don't like Don't try and reuse
another video at the gas station. For that. Yeah. Very tailored to the
channel, very specific. Always tailored to the channel. I think we should have AI
spin up some gas station videos for us at Cross Exit. Okay? Now let's watch
them and react to them. Okay. Sam, this has
been delightful. It's been wonderful. Thank you so much. Where
can people connect with you? Where can they find
you to learn more? They can find me on LinkedIn.
My name is Sam Balter. Reach out to me. I will
happily talk to everybody. And where can they find
the state of video report? They could go to Wistia.
They should go to Wistia. They should go to wistia dot com
slash forward slash data video. It's all over the place. Thanks sir. Thank you so much for having
me. This was fun. Yay. We did it.