Expert: chris-savage
Video URL: https://youtu.be/ol6UJ0jXLWY
Date collected: 2026-06-13
============================================================

Alright. So this episode starts
with an improv game. And honestly, that's kind of the
point of the episode because today, we're doing something
a little different. We're improv and we're vibing, and we're chatting with
our video editor here on Talking Too Loud, Justin. Justin's coming from behind the
scenes to talk about what we've learned building the show and
what we've learned going from being just an audio podcast
to being a video first show. We're getting transparent
about what worked, what didn't, and how editing decisions like
reactions, b roll, text, pacing, actually change the story of what
we're putting into the market. So if you're adapting
a podcast to video, you're thinking
about YouTube at all, this one is for you. This should be your bread
and butter because you do improv, Justin. I do. And you would think that this
would be my bread and butter. But before every improv
show, there is, like, this nervous energy inside
of me that that has me questioning like every decision I've ever
made up until that moment. And then I get on stage
and I'm like, oh, okay. This is what I'm meant to do. So we'll see if, I'm also
meant to be a podcast guest. I think so, but we probably
need suggestions from the crowd. So alright. What can we get? What do we
what what should we be doing? Should we should you do one fun
little improv game for us just so we can can see if we're meant
to be part of your world too? Oh gosh. You know Savage is gonna
love this. You love improv. I think the the two of you have
you ever done a mind meld before? No. It's a mind meld. So we'll count we'll
count up to three, or we'll count down from three. Yeah. And then you guys
both say one word. And between those two words, you try to come up with
the word that's, like, kind of connects the two. I know this game. Alright. Cool. So So we go three two one word. Word. And then Or you just
say a different word. And then we'll try to then do three
two one and try to get the same word? Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Okay. Here we go. Okay. Sounds great. Alright.
Okay. Ready? Three two one. Syrup. Porcupine. Syrup. Oh, and
porcupine. I got it. Okay. Alright. You ready,
Savage? Okay. Alright. Three two one. Waffles. Sticky. Okay. And you can't say
the same word twice. So I said sticky. You said waffles. Okay. Alright. Ready? Wait. Three. Wait. Nope. Oh. Just
go pure instinct. Okay. Okay. Three Two. One. Maple tree. Okay. Kind of that
was kinda big. That counts. We've got it. Oh. We've got it. Also, there's a a song, that you sing after you get
a mind meld, and and it's like, it's literally, we
got a mind meld. So we got a mind meld. Got a mind meld. We got a mind meld. Wow.
I could play this game. What a beginning. I could play this game all day. And, honestly, that
was super quick. If you're in a room full
of improvisers, like, you can go for, like, an hour before actually
getting somewhere. I'm proud of us. That was good. That was pretty good. That was great. I also think that's kind of the
perfect way to kick off this episode because we did
something that really only made sense on video in that moment. But we are here to talk about,
yes, buckle up, friends. This is one of those meta ones. We're going to do it. We're going to we're going to
talk about making a podcast, promoting a podcast, building
and evolving a podcast, turning it into a video podcast, doing it here with Wistia and
what we've learned along the way. And I think we should start
maybe with a little bit of history on where do we begin. Yeah, Silvia, you wanna bring us to
the beginning and and kind of how Let me and Justin were
working through that process? Let me take you guys back, down memory lane. Okay. But quickly.
I'll do it quickly. I believe in you. And I'll do, like, a
little woo transition. I like that. Yeah.
Do a woo, please. Oh, I love having you. I love having you in the actual
recording because now you know where all the beats have to be. Talking Too Loud started as an
audio podcast during the pandemic. Video production
kinda shut down. It was sad, but we met
the moment where it was. Then pandemic
becomes evolves, and video production can
become a thing again. Wistia is a video company. So we were like, let's
make this a video podcast. And there were some
real learning curves. I think for me on the courage
side, that's what I'll say. I was not used to
being on camera. I love audio because
it's voice only. And that's where I felt
the most comfortable. However, I am also a big I
love seeing people's reactions. I love seeing laughter. I feel like joy is contagious. And so something that I think
I learned pretty quickly, right off the bat
with video is that it could be really really fun. Like, I know that doesn't
seem Way more fun. Yeah. It doesn't seem like a big
like super insight, but, like, all of a sudden, like,
the giggling mattered and, like, wanting people
to giggle mattered. Yeah. Chris, what about you? I you seemed excited
about video from the jump. Of course. I mean, also, I you
know, we had done, like, a higher production video
podcast like thing before. And I could tell
it had resonated, but also the production of it
was so intense that it was very hard to keep up. And so I remember
when we started this, we said, Okay, let's do at
least one hundred episodes. And let's start in the
simplest easiest way to do it, which seemed like audio. And then it was remote video
from and it's been remote video most of the time. And so I also you know,
I've at this point, I've been in this
space for so long. I just know how emotional the
medium is and felt like this was a shift that was
happening where people were more willing to watch this type of content, which has been a also a
shock to some respects. Right? Like, if you think about how
much it's changed and how how we actually do wanna
watch video podcasts. So, Justin, I wanna hear
from you what the editing of video podcasts like this really
how it seems different from editing just audio. And, like, what
are the challenges, and what are the things that
have maybe not been challenges or been easier
doing it this way? Sure. Yeah. Challenges I mean,
Sylvia's a great producer, and clearly yeah. Tip tip your hand. How about? There's, like, a lot more you
can edit out in an audio episode. For video true. You know, I can't really
cut a lot of ums because then, you know, you're getting jump cuts in
the video and all that stuff. But what I do love about
editing a video podcast is that there's so much, like, reaction that you can get
just by cutting to, you know, your and Sylvie's faces, like, during when a guest is speaking. So there's a lot more
communicated in a video podcast than there is an audio podcast. And I think audio I
don't wanna say it's it's boring, but for me, an
audio podcast is just like Don't me dare. An audio podcast, like, I
don't feel like I'm, like, in the room with you guys. Like, I don't feel like I'm
part of the conversation. But with video, like, I could
see your guys' reactions. It feels like we're all just
friends hanging out. So Yeah. That's why I like it. Yeah. Let's talk about the reaction
piece because I think this is something that's really easy
to miss if you're starting with audio only, like like, what that
actually does for the story. I have I have quick thoughts,
and then I can punt it to you, Justin. But, yeah, I think
kinda going back to that learning
curve that, you know, shifting to a video podcast, I I feel like what it does kind of
exactly what you were talking about. It brings in that, like, feeling of you
being in the room. There's something
that's, like, way more participatory almost as,
like, a watcher when you're like seeing someone
laugh, I guess, is what I'm trying to say. But it also like
strengthens points. So if somebody says something
surprising and I have a surprise look on my face, I
don't have to say any words. You can just cut to that
like sort of awestruck look or Chris, if somebody says
something to you that like you vehemently disagree with,
like maybe your eyes get very big or you start gnashing
your teeth like a monster. I don't know. But there there are just I guess
there are more ways to communicate, your feeling without having
to say anything at all. A hundred percent. And I I really don't wanna
be that annoying improv guy, but it just happens naturally. But in an improv scene, sometimes a natural facial
reaction to what your scene partner's saying gets way more
laughs than a very witty joke. You know? Like, people want to
relate to how you feel, and there's no better way
to do that than visually. Yeah. I I think about it a little
bit as if you were to overhear a conversation. And it's like you you were
sitting next to a few people having a conversation
at the next table, and it seems kind
interesting you look at them. A video podcast is
kind of like that. It's like you're sitting
there, you're watching, and an audio podcast is like
listening to a phone call. And it has to be
dialed in on the phone call to, like, really get you
to really hold your attention. And to be clear, people
can achieve that. Like Oh, for sure. Not saying people can't. Of course, they can achieve it. Yeah. And it and it's like, that is like so it has to be so
so so dialed, like every word, the beats, the spacing, the sound
quality, all the things, like, where with a video podcast, if you can feel like you're
watching the conversation, you're almost a part of it,
you're right next to it, you get all this other
information that makes it easier for it to be compelling. A hundred percent. And I think, you know, you've talked about this on
the podcast quite a bit, but, this building of community, especially when it comes to
business and, like, a podcast, like, you want to create as much access to building a
community as possible. And I think video is
definitely a way to do that, and then creating social
content from the video podcast just it opens that
door even wider. Yeah. I think we should go into that
actually, which is, you know, that that did really change. That changed that changed
the podcast a lot, right, when we started making clips
of the video version of the podcast and started
to figure that out. And maybe we can just share
a little bit of, like, what our process looks like
today and then go back to, like, what did we what
did we learn from that? For sure. So basically, with
long form content, it should come as no shock
to people that distribution and repackaging are a big
thing with long form content. Started we basically started,
like, combing through full episodes, looking for
moments, like thirty to sixty second moments that really
stood out to us because there was a salient point that was
made or because there was a big funny reaction, or because
there was a moment of tension. And we started to
put those clips on TikTok and on Instagram and even on LinkedIn. Yeah. And I think our process
has evolved since the beginning, like,
where we were doing almost truly like straight
clipping rather than like an edited clip. But that's where we started and
and we actually got a lot of traction on TikTok early on. We I mean, I it
still blows my mind, but we have almost twenty
k followers on TikTok. I'm not saying that
to toot our own horn. I'm saying that because, like, it shows the power of short
form content and what people are hungry for. And again, adapting
something that is long form into a short form clip because
it's right for that channel. Yeah. Totally. I think for our social content, we went really hard
animating for a while, and a lot of our
time was devoted to creating these really wild animations
where I was cutting funny. You know, I was rotoscoping
heads and putting them on AI generated
bodies, and and it was really fun. But it it took so much time. We would only get, like, one
or two clips out of every episode. So we dialed that back and and
really thought about, like, how can we make a bigger impact
and and cast a wider net? That's where I started to lean
on AI a little more where I would take a transcript,
send it to Perplexity, ask it to analyze,
Chris, your LinkedIn, and then using the transcript, generate content that it
thought would perform well. And I would ask for ten clips
knowing that we may get, like, one or two Yeah. And that Sylvie had
some ideas for some, and we just went from there. And it was you know, it's it's
it's a rather easy process now. That's great. I mean, it's I think it's
interesting how differently I mean, we've heard this, like,
on the Jay Klaus episode, we talked about the
difference of, like, he talks about every social media
channel is a different sport. And like you have to treat them as
like you want to get really you know, you don't expect someone as
incredible basketball adults to be incredible at tennis
or curling or something. And that we've seen
that exact thing. Because like the TikTok
is a good example. I mean, I was looking
at it yesterday. I don't look at it all the
time because there's like, two hundred twenty thousand
views in the most recent video, two hundred thirty thousand
views in the one before that, hundred eighty thousand,
hundred sixty thousand. And these are, like, one
minute or thirty second, forty five second
clips of the show. It is mind boggling numbers. And then sometimes
the exact same clip goes on Instagram and or
YouTube shorts that can get, like, five hundred views. And so I just find it
so interesting of, like, this consistency
piece and tweaking the clip to the channel
clearly matters. And then how do you
translate you know, it's traditional
marketing in a sense. Like, we grow the
follower count. People see Talking Too Loud as
a podcast on TikTok that they enjoy and think is really good. Then more of those people come back
and they'll find specific episodes. And it is this thing that
will keep on, giving value, but I just find it interesting
how different the same thing can perform. Yeah. I mean, it's a great call out,
like, knowing that not, like, not all videos will
perform the same way on different channels. And and maybe if we had to
do it differently, maybe. If we were starting from
scratch, I'd say, let's like, let's knock one channel
out of the park. Let's nail just one,
before we sort of foray into others. We didn't do that. And we learned some we
I think, essentially, what we learned is what you
just said that like Yeah. Not all clips are created equal. Not all channels
are created equal. Sometimes we have to tailor
the edit to the channel. Sometimes we have to tailor the
topic to the channel. Right? Like that works on LinkedIn
is not necessarily gonna work on TikTok. Totally. I mean, that's what I was thinking
too because I used to post on all these different platforms
and now really only post on LinkedIn for my own content that
includes talking to content. And that has worked really well
because we've just focused there. And we keep and, you know, there'll be like a slight shift
in the algorithm and you can feel it and notice it and then
just like adapt to it in a way that's very hard if you're
going across all these at once. But I think it can be kind of
surprising if you're looking in from the outside because
you might be like, why is there so few so little
engagement on this thing here? It's so much somewhere else. And, like, these tiny differences add
up to make a a really big difference. It's so true. Justin, I wanna I want us
to dig a little bit deeper into your editing philosophy because
I feel like this is where a lot of people are having
trouble kind of making that transition to video. And essentially, like,
I wanna know, like, how do you decide
when to add something? How do you decide what to add? That's kinda it. Sure. How do you do what you do? Yeah. So until recently, I
was editing every episode by hand, and now I'm using an
app called what's it called? AutoCut, which claims to be AI. I don't know if it actually
is because I'm telling it, you know, which video
track is which speaker, so it's matching up
the audio, the yeah. The audio waveform to the video, And it's really just reading the
waveforms and saying, like, okay. This person's speaking.
We're gonna show them. So that's my first pass, and
that actually does, like, a lot of the heavy lifting. And before we talked about
using AI to edit these episodes, and I didn't do it because
it would make mistakes often and have to go back and basically
reedit the whole episode, which ended up being more work. But now I can tell
it to, you know, how frequent I want
cuts and all that stuff. So now I'm just
watching the episodes. And any moments where it
feels like we're know, a solid point has been made, I'll cut to a reaction
from either one of you. Or if there's been, like, a really good point made,
but, like, I'm struggling to, like, comprehend it, I'll go
throw text on screen, which I think, you know, being able to read it and
hear it at the same time Yeah. Really helps solidify the
point that's being made. Yeah. Or I'll go and just find
visual elements that help support what it is that they're
talking about. Yeah. And sometimes you and I will
actually be in the transcript together being like, oh, yeah, this was kind of a heady topic. Like, how can we kind of
elevate it to its like, broadest stroke,
high level concept? I mean, it's such a wild
opportunity that I like didn't. I kind of took for granted, I guess I'll say when
we started video. I was like, how is this
really a value add? And that's a huge value add
when there is a complex idea that you can then elevate
with text or elevate with an animated graph or something
or give it some b roll. It's I mean, it it
helps cement the idea, I guess is what I'm saying. Yeah. Certainly. And and Chris, you
know, a note for me, it it really helps when
you reference past Wistia video endeavors because then
I can just cut to that. And that allows me just to You
mean like the time we put on that parade for the price? Oh, you mean this parade? Yeah. Or that time we, like, we we got shot off a confetti
cannon inside the office. We're so excited. God. I didn't know that happened, but I am very excited to
go see Brendan got, like, slimed over and over for
that social media video. Oh my god. Got pied in the face. Or that time that table
got flipped for no reason other than to just flip the table. That's an epic video,
and everyone should watch it. But, yeah, also, you know, when guests talk about ads
that they liked or or anything that they're doing. Yeah. Using the medium to
its fullest, you're saying. Like, it makes a big difference
to bring in the cutaways and show the other stuff and explain
things that are conceptually might be might make
sense in the context of the whole conversation. But if you're in that exact
moment, might feel confusing, or if it was a clip,
might feel confusing. One hundred percent. And too, like, we're also,
like, battling retention. I feel like that is something
that folks in my industry are always battling
because, you know, TikTok and Instagram
socials just have, like, done a number on people's
attention spans where now in the intro of the episode, we're adding a lot of visual
beats and we're really working hard on tailoring that intro
to entice people to watch the whole episode because we
know how much value is there, but somebody who's just
stumbled upon it may only be looking for background
noise or something. It's getting them to actually
wanna engage with the content. Yeah. So and what would
you say, you know, through all this exploration? I wanna be really clear. We're still constantly testing
and evolving and improving. But Figuring shit out. Figuring shit out. But from what we've
figured out so far, what would you list
as the things, like, that would that we found that
do increase retention that people should be doing when
they're making a video podcast? Well, specifically, I these
this applies to YouTube. Right? So like, the first
thirty seconds of your video has to hook. It has to hook a viewer and
that signals to YouTube's algorithm, people
are interested. What else helps with
that? Thumbnails. What else helps
with that? Titles. And if your first
thirty seconds, your thumbnail and your title
can all work together as one, and really, you know, peak the viewers interest that can do huge
things for your show. Something that we've seen in
our own numbers is that our retention time doubled
over the last year, which is like On YouTube. On YouTube. Pretty wild. Again, we're not like we're
not all the way there. But what it says
to me is that some of the things that we've
really been trying to focus on like titles and thumbnails
and those first thirty seconds making them really
visually engaging, they are contributing, right,
to a longer watch time. So yeah, that would be
that would be my answer. Savage, anything you want
to add about the beginning of stuff? Or I would just
say, yeah, I mean, I think it's been an
interesting journey because we started by saying audio. And then our initial listeners
came from the Wistia audience. So was telling them about it,
putting it on the website. And if you looked at the
analytics at the beginning, was a lot of consuming it on
Wistia dot com and not that much consuming it
in the podcast apps. But now when you look at it, it's mostly consumed in the
podcast apps by a long shot. And so it's like kind
of jump started things. And I think one thing I've found
interesting with that is seeing that it's like a
slow steady rise. Like it has to be
recommended to somebody. You have to have a great
episode or a couple of great episodes in a row. And someone's like,
this is a good thing. And then since we've been
doing the YouTube piece, it's been interesting to see
that when we've had hits there, it's like kind of
astonishing how much action you can
get on something. And also, like, one hundred percent agree with
you on the retention and these beats to hook people. We've also dialed in on,
like, the topics and saying, we'll try to make it more
clear what the topic is in the episode so that
somebody comes in. They know what they're gonna get when
they actually click that thumbnail. Like, I should mow I should probably
be delivered this thing in the content. Yeah. Like, kind of in a weird way, it it makes you video makes you flex
your storytelling muscles. Right? Like because now we're we're
having to think about what's the story that we
tell in ten seconds? What's the story that we
tell in thirty seconds? What's the story we tell with just
one image with three words on it? Yeah. So like it, I think there are people out there who are like, who feel perhaps that
video dilutes something about story. And I would argue that it
actually does the opposite. It like, it sharpens story. And again, it's not the
only way to do story, but it definitely is an exercise
in like brevity, concision, all this stuff that's actually
really fundamentals of storytelling. Yeah. Yeah. Your thumbnail, your title, and
your first thirty seconds have to ask a question and promise
that in the episode, you're gonna answer it. And it in doing that, instills confidence in the audience
that they're gonna learn something. And then not only
learn something, they're gonna learn
something that, like, impacts their day to day or their
work, you know, in that way. I also think the other thing
in terms of retaining someone once they're there that you
shouldn't underestimate the visual changes on who's talking
and reactions that we're talking about before can have a
tremendous impact because it's showing the viewer that
this content is valuable. A lot of this is a signal. Am I just watching a
thing that no one edited? Am I watching a thing
that was edited heavily? How important is this thing? Like when I think about all the
animation stuff that we did, my gut on why that worked so
well is it took a lot of work, but you could kind of
implicitly understand that. So if you came across a clip with
an animation explaining, well, the thing that's being
explained must be important because someone thought to it. And it's like a subconscious
reaction that I think also happens when you have these
video podcasts that do have lots of angles and are
cutting between them. It's like, oh, this is important
because this conversation was captured. But ultimately, it's just getting you closer to
that table of sitting next to someone else having
a conversation. And you get to choose
where you look. And instead, we're
choosing for them. But it's very I don't know. I find that part
really interesting. And we have this internal show
at Wistia that we do once a week that's called the playback. And it's basically like what's happening across the company
this week, what worked, what didn't, what are the
new things we launched, like customer wins,
stuff like that. And I was watching back the one we
recorded for this week this morning. And the first three
minutes of it, thought were actually like
really funny and they're chaotic, but we didn't cut between
the three of us who are on camera. And I felt like after what
we've done with Talking Todd, the feeling I had was if we
were to cut between this, the pacing, you wouldn't even
notice the first two minutes. But because we're not,
you are noticing it. And it was like an interesting
juxtaposition from like what we've done here to
this internal thing. Yeah. Where I'm like, oh, this could
if this leveled up a little bit, it would really help people
because that would really pull them in in that
first few minutes. Like, you wanted the playback
to have Justin edit as an edit. What I yeah. And I wanted
it to go between Yeah. You know, we're we're, like, surprised some other people
in a meeting, and then, like, there's, like, funny
reactions happening to this. And, like, you can
create the story in your mind by looking at the different
boxes that people are in. But it's a lot easier if
someone says, no. Look. Brendan's laughing. Oh, and then Carrie made a
joke, and then I laughed, and then I made a joke. Like, it's helping you.
It's making it easier. For sure. And and one of the things, like, that I love about comedy is
the rhythm of it And what editing this this video
podcast enables me to do is, you know, give a little bit
of time if we need to pause to help, like, land a joke or
immediately get your reaction to see, like, okay. Savage is really having
a good time here. Therefore, this is this is good. I I like you know, I wanna
be part of in this room, really. I really want a
sound effects board. That's all I I wanna
be able to be like, You know? Like, it's It doesn't
seem very hard to do. It's it's very easy. Or, like, I wanna
be able to be like, Woah. Yeah. I could I could figure
out how do rails. I'm going off the rails. But, you know, you bring
up a good point, Savage. So, I don't know if you
watch Nessen at all. But for Bruins games, if
you watch New England Sports Network? The New England Sports Network.
Oh, yeah. You're familiar. I was like, what
the fuck is Nesson? Sorry. For the layman, yes.
The New England Sports Network. So for Bruins games, I don't
know if this is all sports, but for Bruins games, you
can watch Nessen three sixty, which gives you access
to all of the cameras. And you can select which camera you
wanna be watching the game with. And that is such an interesting
opportunity that I only think you can really do with sports
because everything else is, like, tailored to the audience. But, maybe that's the future
of podcasting where you're you know, you can select which
camera you wanna watch, and maybe people just wanna
watch Savage for his reactions. A smash cut of
all your laughs is it's coming. Well, I sent you yesterday. I you like The joyful yes. Yesterday, for those
listening watching, Savage sent me what we're what we're calling
a remix inside Wistia, which basically you can like select
several videos and you can say, give me all the find all
the moments of laughter in these videos or just within one video. It's an agentic
editor, basically. But we're try it's in beta. We're trying to
figure this thing out. And so I'm constantly pushing
it to try different things. And I was like, I think there's a lot of
laughing in this episode. So I said, make make a sixty second
thing that only has laughter. And it's complete chaos. But
it was it was fun to watch. But I found myself laughing
because laughter is contagious. And anybody who says
it's not, I don't trust. I don't trust them. We wait. Can we cut to
that video right now? You can. Let's do it. Wow. So we're excited to have you. Great conference, though. And we're back. Wow. That was so cool. Well, you said that you said
the magic word though, Justin, because we're I think I need
Justin on every episode even in the background while
recording because I I know. Cutaways all the time.
So it's like Yeah. Yes. That's all I want is just and
cut to this. And cut to this. Cut away. Cut away.
Cut away, king. You said the magic
word, which is future. And I feel like we are at
that point in the episode where where we can talk about the future,
muse about the future. What is exciting to you about
the future of video editing? Nothing. Literally nothing. No. I I I kid. It
it seems like kid. The the AI is getting better. And with that, you
know, I I'm you know, I and every other
video editor out there has more time to
devote to really polishing episodes, polishing video
content as a whole. And Savage earlier you
were talking about, we were talking about the
intros and everything like that. I think production value creates a
lot of trust and confidence from an audience perspective. So I wanna shout
out Wistia's hit web series called
fix my setup that, really anyone who's
looking to start oh, yeah. Cut to that. B roll is playing
while I'm talking. You're seeing Steve Pedo. He
is the face of fix my setup. He paints with light. He
loves playing with light. This is, like, your ultimate
guide to create an in home setup for
either web calls or podcasts that, should fit your budget. Very nice plug there, Justin. Very nice. But I think it's also
I'm I think it's interesting that other piece you said, which
is like polish creates trust, which I think we all agree with. And then some of these tools
are starting to deliver. And it's like, does that mean
that we stop what we're doing? No. Like, I think the instinct
is exactly right, which is like, no, we're actually
going to level this up. And that's like very
exciting because on I think all of us, like, who can embrace this and figure out
how to use these things properly, we're gonna make better better
stuff in the same amount of time, and that is exciting. Yeah. I think one curveball I'll
throw into the polish the polish chat is that, like, too much polish can
have the adverse effect. Right? Too much if there was, like, lower thirds flying underneath all
of us right now and, like, sparkling lights
and stuff like that. Too much. That's that's I love this. You're giving me
so much work to do. He's like, this video took me
ten ten more hours than usual. The lower third is Justin
has more work to do. That's right. That just stays flashy
for the rest of the time. That there was a story I
heard recently about one battle after another. You know, that car chase scene? Of course. Epic. No
spoilers, though. Okay. Well, they filmed You know that
car chase scene in that movie? Remember when that thing happens
and the other thing happens? That is so exciting. It's so exciting. They filmed what
you're gonna say. They filmed that in a very
specific way. Right? Yes. Like, and when
when the scene was done, it looked too perfect. It would they nailed it
so well that the director said, no one's gonna
believe that we filmed this. So they ended up rigging
something to make the camera look more shaky during that
chase scene to make it look less polished. Gonna hammer that point home and
keep gesticulating with my hands. But, yeah, too much polish, I think, can can
be a disadvantage. And and I think, like, for those folks who are just
starting out and who are like, oh my god, I have to have
this high production value. No. You don't. Not from the
jump. Not from the jump. Like, that's something
you graduate into. That's something
you learn how to do. And polish doesn't mean
that it's not authentic. That's the other thing. I think, like, we can
be talking and not speak perfectly, but get the
right idea out there, but do it in a way where the
actual production feels elevated. And you can have both things. You can show that it's support
and it can be authentic. And not saying the only way to make
something authentic is to be imperfect, but that's a pretty easy
obvious one for how to do it. But I think that that because
that's also going to be true, right? Like the quality
is going to go up, but we're going to be more
aware of does the person who's talking about this thing
actually have the credibility to talk about it? Is there advice something
I should follow? Does it seem like they really
believe what they're saying? Has it been like hard won? Is there something about this
that shows me that it's real? Because that's the other piece
of the all of this that's happening at the same time. So I think you're right on. Like, polish is not
the only answer, but it is an answer for
how we're gonna put, like, a similar amount of effort
and get something even better out. And I do look at this as a
I mean, I look at it as, like, a little bit of a race
in the sense of, like, the faster you do it of
course, I look at this way. But the faster you do it and
establish yourself there, that is that is one of
the advantages in all of this. Any step above two guys in
a room holding an iPhone using that as the mic and passing it back
and forth is a good place to start. Yeah. I was asked to be a guest
on an Use two iPhones. Use two iPhones, please. I was asked to be a guest on
a podcast, an improv podcast, and it was two dudes in
a truck with a phone on the the middle console. And they were like,
alright. We're ready to go. And I was like, oh, no. What
have I gotten myself into? How'd it turn out? Bad.
I was good, though. I was great. I was incredible. Dang. I think we covered
all the bases. Shall we finish with
another improv note? Oh, I like that. Book end. Well, you guys never
asked me what has me talking too loud. Oh my freaking god. Okay. We've made
an error. Alright. Made a great mistake. Here we go. Justin, what has you
talking too loud? Just for just so you guys know, I'm not putting
this at the front. I'm gonna keep it where it is. Keep it in the back. That's right. Alright. Cool. So what has me
talking too loud is, the spiritual and musical
connections between Jerry Garcia and Brent Midland
during the Grateful Dead's nineteen eighty nine
spring and summer tour. So specific. Okay. For nondeadheads, breakdown. What did you just say? Yeah. Who break down who they are,
what that tour was about. That's just been that's been a bit
in my back pocket for too long. Was, like, really just
burning a hole there. But, honestly, they're
so Jared Garcia, incredible guitarist. Brent Middlin,
incredible pianist. There was just that's actually
when they first started recording their
concerts using Videotoo. They're known for recording
all of their shows, literally all of their shows
and putting them out for free audibly, but they
started doing video. And then you could actually see
the reaction between Brent and Jerry as they were trading
off solos, and it's, like, actually really magical. I'm getting goosebumps
talking about it. It's like Do we cut to it? What if what if you
just recreated, Justin? Oh my god. You just act as both. He can't do it. This is too much. This is too far. It's it's it's you can't
you can't mimic that magic. Well, look, Justin, thank you
for coming on this episode. I know it's not well, you improv day in the
evenings and on the weekends, not normally during the day. So we appreciate you coming from
behind the camera and joining us here. Oh, it was it was a
pleasure to join you guys. This is actually really
fun. Would you do it again? See? We'll do it again
for sure. Alright. See? Good job, Sylvie. No. Not that's I wasn't
fishing for that. I was just I you got nervous.
You were nervous. I did. Was like, I swear this
is gonna be fun for you. So yeah. Sylvie called me
yesterday and was like, hey. A guest canceled. We need you. We want
you on as a backup. And I was like,
immediately, I forgot, like, everything I ever knew about. You can come out with me. I was like, please.
Let Steve come on. Steve knows more than I do. To which I said nothing. I said nothing, and I was like, I'm gonna let him just crank on
that for Good job, everybody. We really did it. Okay. Proud of you guys.
Keep up the good work. Oh, you too. You too. Thanks so much. Okay. Awesome. Alright.